---
layout: post
title:  Disorganization
---
Last night, Sam, Eli and I reached the compromise of 9:00 for me to wake them up, aiming to get on the road to Maijishan by 10:00. At 9:05 I partially open the curtains, and after a bit, Eli and I go out walking in search of a laundry for him. We find nothing but a dry cleaner, who wants to charge about $1.50 per item, and this seems to confirm what we have found in other places as well. Eli is upset, and points to the washing machine in the counter area of the store. He uses Google translate to tell the person he does not want dry cleaning, and that there’s a washing machine right there. His sense of logic is offended, and I tell him to let it go: immediately, I regret this. As his father and someone who has lived with him a long time, I should know better than this.

He and I pop up to the room to get our backpacks and he says he feels like I was telling him to just suck it up.

“I was!” I say. “We’ve learned that laundry is really, really expensive here. So unless you are willing to pay for it, you’re going to have to wash it in the sink.” I give him some sort of example about me, if I wanted steak and potatoes.

“But it’s different,” he says. “It’s not the same for this. It’s not the same for you or Sam or Max. I’m just a lot more sensitive to this than you guys are. About having clean clothes.”

I can see he is holding back tears. “I know,” I say. “We’ll figure out a solution.”

Later, he apologizes for being “so harsh.” I hug him and tell him it’s okay - and repeat that we will figure out a solution. I tell him washing in the sink is actually better because you wash each item by hand, and rinse it really well. The machine, I say, does them all at once and who knows how well it really agitates each item? I don’t press it too much; I don’t want to set him up for distrusting washing machines. He looks up something about it online, and reports that one site tells him it’s okay and to just get over it. I’m unsure as to what sort of site even addresses this issue, but it seems to have relaxed him and I am grateful for that. When Sam poses a question about the why of all this, he responds with, “Because I’m neurotic about this.” There’s nothing more to say, so we focus on finding the correct bus.

The bus, we soon calculate, will take just short of forever to get us to the site, but Didi does not respond to our request, so we hail a cab. The second one agrees to take us out there  - about a seventy-five minute drive - for around $24, or $8 per person. We jump in.

I follow our progress on Google Maps as we make our way east for what seems like a really long time. Finally we head south and I show Eli on the map. “This road will take us right there,” I say. “About fifteen miles. So we should be there in twenty, twenty-five minutes, depending.” I’m saying this more to myself of course, as he seems unworried about the trip.

The highway south is three lanes in either direction, and mostly empty of vehicles. The median strip is full of bushes and small trees, all of them in bloom with flowers of deep red, pink and white. “Are those roses?” I ask aloud. But the trees don’t look like rose bushes, so I ask Sam to ask the driver, and after some back and forth I discover the flowers are gardenias. I send a WeChat to Janette telling her about this discovery.

Without warning of any kind, the left lane is now filled with oncoming traffic. I look over and see the opposite three lanes are filled with workers, so that makes sense, though the complete lack of warning seems concerning. Maybe I just missed it. 

And then the road ends.

Well, not the road, but certainly the pavement. I realize that this road is not yet completed, and yet it is open for use. The road deteriorates from roughly graded to barely graded at all, with potholes and round, concrete manhole outlets sticking up a good foot above the earth. None of this seems to concern our driver, who proceeds as before, passing people on the left while other cars try to pass us on the right. The implements of construction accumulate, and traffic flows around stacks of rebar, sections of concrete pipe and unmanned construction equipment.

Along with the growing incompleteness of the road, the houses alongside have gone from finished subsections to half-built units, their window openings gaping, to mere gestures of what might someday be a resplendent suburb. A mile or two further, and we hit a few small towns, long-established, and fighting back. Here, small children squat in the shade of a backhoe. Locals walk and drive their mopeds through the construction area as though it were theirs, and some of the piles of materials seem suspiciously depleted. Telephone poles support a series of cables, the main one about 3 inches in diameter, and it is laced with an ever-charging series of other, lighter cables, which appear to be both electric and data, and make their way to individual houses and stores in a manner which hardly seems state approved. At one point, people hang their laundry on it. At another, it enters the front edifice of a small store, cleaving the surface at a shallow angle, then pops out the side to continue on its way, as though the store building had grown up around it, as a tree might envelope a piece of rope over time.

To our left appears a nest of steel supports. This is the home of the future Maijishan tourist center, and it is clear this highway is being built as part of some plan to exploit the site for tourism. Out in a nearby field, quite isolated from all the construction, sits a small building with a very large sign. “Toilets” it proclaims, but only in English. 

Sam says that the tourist industry in China is aimed mainly at Chinese, though this does not adequately explain the toilet sign. With a new middle class with money to spend, Chinese are taking vacations like never before, and they are visiting their own country. Still, I think, this place seems pretty far out of the way.

We make it to Maijishan, and once again I am surprised at how crowded it is. If I lived here for a year, I would still not get it; my mind continues to envision these places as isolated, and though they are, that does not mean they are empty. The lot is jammed with tour buses and cars and motorbikes, and the ticket office is a minor riot of confusion. As we stand in line, I say to Sam, “I’ve told you the story of the Puck Fair before, haven’t I? Irish Fai. Oldest annual fair in the world, since around the tenth century, and it’s still disorganized. Not sure why it comes to mind right now.”

Sam snickers.

“Oldest continuous society in the world,” I say. “And they still can’t get it right.”

“There’s just too many people,” he says. 

I agree. “Twenty-five hundred years of Confucian discipline can’t hold back the human instinct to push ahead of everyone else.”

When we get to the ticket window, they need Eli’s passport. I push my way out to where he is waiting, and then back in. Now they want Eli. The people in line, though pushing and scheming to get their own tickets, are affable and understanding. The ticket people want to take photos of our faces for their database. Turns out they have a facial recognition file for everyone in the province, and this is how they gain entry to the park, so they need to add us as well. But after about five tries at my face, the computer won’t register the image, so the woman just waves me on.

“I have an unrecognizable face,” I say, with a mixture of pride and offense.

Inside the park, we stop for. quick lunch. A man and his son stop as well and we share a table with them. He asks what we think of the Chinese people, and we give him some thumbs up. Through Sam, I ask him what he thinks of Americans. “Well,” he answers evenly, “You are more developed than us, and more flexible. But you are not as welcoming to us.”  This is an astute man.

The rest of the day is a mix of interest and disappointment. The Buddhas, which are carvings left by monks in the side of a cliff, are showing a lack of care, and many, if not most, are locked behind screen doors, making seeing them difficult. Those that we do see are impressive however, and still instill a sense of holiness and gravity.

The climb up in the stairs that are affixed to the side of the cliff agitates my sense of vertigo, and I’m not the only one. As we gesture across language about our fears, the Chinese people and I, for a moment, share something vulnerable about ourselves and in doing so, enable us to laugh together and conquer them. For a moment, we like one another, and when I old up the line to take a photo f my two sons, no one minds. A woman we bump into several times, finally asks Sam if she can take her picture with him, the evergreen countryside far below as a backdrop. A Canon shooter spies my Nikon and says “Nihao!” 

After a long day of walking and climbing, and a long ride back to town, there is still the question of laundry and dinner and how we should spend the days we have left before traveling to Beijing. After some discussion, a trip to Pingyiang is ruled out, timely transportation being unavailable. We decide to stay here for four nights, doubling our stay, despite the fact that our internet doesn’t work and the shower is terrible. I get an email from Janette saying she won’t be able to pick us up at the airport after all, despite our having planned it months ago.  Our general mood turns sour as we eat dinner, and I can tell Sam’s nerves are getting a bit frayed – as are mine.

I’m actually surprised this has not happened more often on this trip. The four of us have not been together for this long, ever. Wendy and I split right after Eli was born, and though we’ve had vacations together, they never lasted more than a week or so. They are all grown adults now as well, with habits and agency and fully developed idiosyncrasies. I have anticipated these times and have happily noticed their absence until now.

It seems minor though, and I suggest a walk in the square where we encounter a repeat of what Sam and I saw the previous evening. It calms us and we return to our hotel and each retire to our beds.

I have another restless night, wide awake for hours at a stretch. Finally, I dream I am homeless, and am awaking from a night sleeping on a bench. With no place else to go, I turn to a mission, where, along with a hundred others, I will listen to preaching in exchange for food. I know I need a job, but how to get one when I have no place to stay? First thing, I realize, is to find a place to stay for the coming night, some place warm and safe. But I have no idea how to find such a place.

I awake, and my feeling of centeredness is gone, broken like ceramic. Nothing to do but try and piece it back together. 
