---
layout: post
title: How to Forgive Your Parents
---
The dog was a cocker - retriever mix, cute as a puppy with sad eyes, and given to me by Wendy when she and I first moved into the farmhouse out in Poolesville. I named him Spalding, after Spalding Gray, the actor and writer. When the kids came along, this name seemed like a good choice, as it pointed them at least in some way to the world of literature and ideas rather than, say, I don’t know, wherever it is that Fidos and Rovers point them to.  At least it felt like a good choice right up to the day when Mr. Gray threw himself into the East River and drowned, ending a life of creativity and depression. 

When Wendy and I separated, I moved into a small basement apartment for a year, then into a two bedroom with Sam and Max in one bedroom and Eli and I in the other, when I had them. It also meant I got Spalding back, since I could not keep him in the first apartment. Eli was quite young at that point, maybe fifteen or sixteen months old. On a Saturday afternoon, he got down on all fours to emulate the dog and, as he had seen him do, crawled over to the food bowl. Spalding took this as a threat and bit, his top teeth catching Eli’s cheek just below the left eye, and the bottom set digging into the flesh of his cheek, a half-inch from the corner of his mouth. Eli had no verbal reaction; I heard, from another room, a short growl from the dog and then, a moment later, Sam saying that Spalding had bit Eli.

I came into the room to see blood on Eli’s face and the dog looking sulky and defensive. I picked Eli up and cleaned him with a washcloth, then rounded the kids up for the drive to the emergency room. Before we left however, I hit the dog harder than I have ever hit a living being. My anger of course was completely misplaced. The dog was just doing what a dog does, and the problem was that I had not been there to intercede before anything happened. And while it’s unreasonable to think I needed to be everywhere all the time, anticipating such a thing might happen, guilt is what I felt as I sat in the waiting area with my child, open wounds marring his tender face, the dog just half an inch away from blinding him in one eye. And of course, guilty for hitting the dog, for letting my children see that kind of angry response.

I have a photo of Eli which I took a few days later, stitches in his face. He’s looking up at me, and his face is full of love and trust and his wonderfully impish smile. When I look at it, which I still do from time to time, I am deeply grateful for how children forgive - instantly and completely. At the same time, I am struck dumb by the responsibility that comes along with that kind of love. I may have been injured while in your care, his look says, and I love you for it and still trust you completely. The need to live up to both ends of that deal has been with me since. One seems more difficult than the other, or maybe everything just becomes more difficult when we become adults. 
