---
layout: post
title:  China Now
---
After our usual breakfast together, Max heads to Tai Chi and after a second cup of coffee, I return to the hotel. This wakes Sam up, and he decides to join me on a walk to find a temple I can see from our sitting place at the empty bar on the fifth floor of our hotel. We head out into what promises to be one of the hottest, stickiest days yet.

We find our way to the city park and discover therein a multitude of old people gathered at various tables playing cards. It’s amusing to me, and in all likelihood completely patronizing, to see old Chinese women, their faces drawn and deeply lined like bark, with their cell phones laid out urgently on the table in front of them as they play Mah Jong and cards. Other locals are exercising, following the tracks laid out for them. Several amusement rides fill one area, along with their music. And, most improbably to me at any rate, one middle aged man has set himself up, off the path about twenty yards into the woods, with a complete karaoke. The amp is the size of an easy chair, and he stands alone, singing relatively well, his voice carrying for what would surely be miles if it wasn’t competing with all the other noises. 

We begin climbing the kern, and people are open ad friendly for the most part. Anyone over forty seems genuinely pleased to see us; the younger generation, immunized to foreigners by the internet, give us no notice. Sam though, is a matter of curiosity, especially when they hear him begin to speak Mandarin. We ask for directions to a cave later, and the girl insists on taking a selfie with Sam, telling him his Mandarin is better than her boyfriend’s. 

The hill is not a tough climb, but I’m still sweating profusely when we reach the top. The “temple” turns out to be a concrete pagoda, covered in graffiti, much of it in English. We look out over the town and I watch more military propaganda on one of the main street billboards. It’s really no different, I’m not shocked to discover, then our own, and a strong sense of Orwell coming to life descends upon me as we make our way back down the stairs and into the flat green of the park.

The caves are somewhat better, in that they are real limestone caves, but they have been tarted up with colored LED lights and music, the lyrics telling us about the glory of nature. There appears to be no sense of irony in all of this. China, so far, has been full of many small mysteries, including today’s: within the cave Sam and I discover an unlit ledge on which there is a collection of about thirty liquor bottles, most of them empty, but not all. 

The next couple of hours consist of trying to get all five of us to meet at one spot for transportation up the river to Xing Ping, a town the guidebook describes as more sleepy and laid back then Yangshuo. From there we are hoping to catch some bamboo rafts and experience the scenery from the Li river. We hail a Didi, and the driver says it’s against company rules to take more than four people, though he has a car which can comfortably fit us all. He agrees only to take us to the bus station. Given the casual attitude that most Chinese seem to harbor toward rules - especially when it comes to driving - his decision strikes as a curious. Nevertheless, the bus ride is cheap and air conditioned, so it all works out. 

“Old Town” Xing Ping turns out to be another alleyway of shops, restaurants and bars, including a “German Beer Garden” that is anything but. We find the water, which is filled with dozens of tour boats the size of the average car ferry, and even more flat boats propelled by noisy outboard engines. After some confusion, we are able to buy tickets and get on the river.

The boats hold four people, so Raven and Eli get on board with two others and Sam, Max and I have to buy a discounted ticket for the fourth seat to go on ours.  The breeze is a huge relief, but at some cost. The “bamboo boat” is made of PVC piping and has tires cut into quarters for its bumpers, and the quiet poling of old time pilots has been replaced by a deafening two stroke motor that kicks up a spray and makes conversation nearly impossible. Sam takes this in stride; he’s been in China long enough to temper his expectations, but Max, I can tell, is upset by how irreconcilable this situation is. I share both of their attitudes, but in the end, find myself longing to experience this magnificent river in a silent canoe, beneath a full moon. Another lifetime perhaps. 

Westerners stand out in China, and Raven, with her blonde hair and open expression even more so. A local girl stops us and asks to take her photo with Raven, who graciously agrees, and is then directed as to how to stand and where to place her hands. I turn to Max and ask, “Can you imagine walking the boardwalk in LA and seeing an Asian person and saying, ‘Oh! An Asian! Can I take my picture with you?’” But the offense does not translate of course, and the people here seem very innocent with their curiosity. 

After a wonderful dinner at a local place called “The Old Neighbor’s,” run by a woman and her two daughters with delicious pork, duck, vegetables and dumplings, with milk tea and beer, we have long missed the last bus back. We hail another Didi who agrees immediately to cram all of us into his sedan. He is a cautious driver, for which I am grateful, but it prolongs the time Eli, Raven, Max and I are crammed into the back seat.  Eli looks up relative statistics: the US has about 14 fatal traffic accidents per 100,000 vehicles per year. China as 115. The Central African Republic, he reads, has over 400. We all make a mental note not to ride in a car there.

Eli wants to come back to our hotel to use the western toilet instead of the squatter toilet at his hostel, and to register for his college classes in the fall. It’s easy to forget about responsibilities back home, but the Internet and wireless technology will not allow it. Or rather, it is our expectation that since everyone has access to these things, all business can take place that way, and exceptions for those who might need or want to go offline are not considered. While at dinner the other evening, we counted five security cameras. Somehow, this prompted a conversation on where the self is located, what it consists of. It’s all very fuzzy to me, and that could be the jet lag, or my fatigue, or the beer. And it could be these warm, inky nights, here on the other side of the planet suspended as I am between the past and the future, a place we consistently occupy but ignore, much to our own peril, it seems to me. Here is suspended between old world and new, between my father and my children, between being nagged at by memories and seduced by hope. We are suspended with but two arms to tug at a web of strings, the self as much an illusion as is the horizon, always out of reach and always the predominant feature of our personal landscape. Out view of all but the her and now.

Time to take this self to bed and give it a rest.
