---
layout: post
title:  The Gulf
---
Eli says one of the things he struggled with in his job as camp counselor was when, despite the camp rule against running, he wanted to let the kids run because running is part of being a kid.

I nodded. “So is falling,” I said.

“So is falling,” he repeated. “But compared to the other counselor, the one that doesn’t let them run, it seems like I don’t care as much, because I’m willing to let them fall and get hurt.”

And I said I struggled with that as well, raising him and his brothers. I wanted to let them grow up to be independent and yet I always worried that it seemed as though I didn’t care. There was a bit of panic within me then as it seemed we were heading into a corner within this conversation, one in which I would have to expressly state directly to my son that I cared. But that would be easy, I thought, and then it wasn’t him, it was my father, and then I was my father, looking at me and the panic made sense and left me shaking.

Later we stopped into a pub because I was tired of the Chinese beers which all taste like low-alcohol versions of Budweiser, and the kids got tired of my whining for an IPA, and Eli brought up the fact that I gave each them half a grapefruit every morning but wouldn’t let them put sugar on it. 

“Did I? Huh. I guess I was a good father,” I said, only partially in sarcasm.

“Was?” Max asked. “You still are,” he said and lay his hand upon my arm, and I said thank you, and it felt natural and not really even worth noting except that never in a million years could I have said such a thing or made such a gesture to my father. And that is a fault, I see now, that he and I created together, and I am left to correct on my own.
