---
layout: post
title:  Head, Heart and Soul
---
Getting my kids to get up and out the door is an exercise in patience. Today, we don’t make it out of our hotel until after noon, and the first thing we do is walk, after no Didi will pick us up, about two and a half kilometers to an small, on-the-edge-of-gentrification market. We choose an ordinary looking place to eat, but are ushered through an impeccable garden with koi ponds and stone bridges to a private room where we order food and drink from a slightly bemused staff. We make our next travel plans only to have them fall apart an hour later when we try to buy train tickets and find it is full. The fix comes down to spending another day here in Kunming, which is fine because it is cool here and we have the time. We hike up a mountain, take a bus back down, have sit in a restaurant overlooking the lake and the city. The waitress brings us tea in an elaborate setup, complete with a tube that allows spillover to clear the table and run into a separate bucket down near Max’s feet.

He looks at the apparatus and says, “I’m just not used to my tea serving coming with a colostomy bag.”

After many, many cups, we walk up to the local night market and spend our time eating food from various stalls. Along the way we laugh and interact with the locals as best we can, and in the alley at night I am relaxed and happy being with my children. 

Night markets are just what they sound like: a series of blocks or alleys or even an entire neighborhood blocked off to traffic and open for walking and shopping. In China, this seems to also involve the stringing of hundreds, if not thousands, of red lanterns over head, and packing in lots and lots of people, to the point where movement can sometimes take careful negotiation. Shops range from the posh art gallery selling new takes on traditional Chinese art, to the guy selling hot corn on the cob. Max is a nascent vegan, and Sam a vegetarian, which leaves Eli and me to eat the pork one slender guy cooks for us, with rather obvious joy. He serves it to us in a cup; it’s savory and delicious, and he delights in our smiles. 

I was warned by about a half dozen people before coming to China not to eat anything from street vendors, but we do and it is all delicious. (I forego raw foods and vegetables, such as peppers, that have been washed. The water here is not really potable, and bottled water is the way to go for drinking and cooking – even for brushing our teeth. The kids eat it all though, and so far at least, they’re fine.) One nurse, when I went in to get shots, seemed convince the locals would not only rip me off constantly, but would serve me rat in place of more palatable meats. I don’t know where she got her ideas, but among these lights and the music and the friendly crowds, eating anything from nuts to ice cream, all with new and enticing flavors, those ideas seem clearly spun from ignorance and fear.

I don’t know the statistics, but crime does not seem to be a problem here. I’m sure some of that is because of the totalitarian state, and the omnipresent security cameras, but one result is that we see single women by themselves at 10:00 at night and it does not seem to be a problem. They walk by groups of four or five men and the men don’t catcall, don’t leer, don’t intimidate in any way. In the alley, I look at the produce, which is gorgeous. I tell Eli and Max that they should settle here, find a pretty Chinese vegetarian wife and be happy. “Isn’t that what Sam is already doing?” they ask.

Usually, when I find some group of people attractive, I can see it in both genders. Like Brazilians. You don’t have to be drawn sexually to men to recognize their attractiveness, but here in China, there are an abundance of attractive women and I just don’t see the same in the men. Sam says it is because being pretty is what women bring to the table in the search for a mate, while for men it’s all about earning money and being able to provide, so men just work very hard and don’t worry about their appearance. This strikes me as being about a generation of women behind the States, and I wonder if it will take that long for the people her to shake off thee attitudes. 

Along the path up the mountain, I borrow a meme from the Chinese and apply it to my three sons. Sam, number one son, is the head of the family. Smart, organized, uses resources well and seemingly takes great pleasure in shepherding us through this country. Max, number two son, the heart. Impulsive, sometimes silly, throbbing with emotion that comes out in poetry and song and dance. He pushes us to move off the well-trod path. And Eli, number three son, the soul, for he needs the other two to nourish and care for him, and in return, he gives us direction and meaning. There has arisen as of the last several days, a joke among us, which is that “in the end, we all agree with Eli.” It would not be as funny as it is if it did not contain some truth. 

On the way home, on the long subway ride, we are all tired and I realize we are just about halfway through this trip. I’m beginning to feel relaxed now. I do have moments when the future and its worries slip through and into my awareness and my anxiety is quickly stoked: thoughts of all the work I will have to catch up on, the things that need to be taken care of at the house in Maryland. But I have gotten pretty good at letting them go - or more accurately, at blocking them out. Letting them go would be a sign of true peace, and I’m not quite there yet. 

In this immaculate train, an elderly woman sits on her plastic seat, her tiger face striped with courage and regret. She stares at the four of us, at me, as I stare back in small defiance. I am an intruder; I bear no malice. What passes between us? Her black eyes and small mouth appear to me as an accusation, but at least in this context I feel innocent, defensive, protective. I recall that I am in a foreign land, that this incomprehensible language is but the first barrier. She continues to stare as we stand and walk from the train. 
