---
layout: post
title:  Waypoints
---
Sam, Eli and I are heading up to Lanzhou for a few days before heading to Beijing. Max however, wants to go to the Wutang mountains and check out a school there that offers classes on Taiji, Taoism, and a lot of other things, including internal alchemy, whatever that is. So he is going to go off on his own for the week and we will reconnect in Beijing. He’s also leaving a couple of days earlier than the rest of us, heading to India, where Sam will join him after Eli and I head back to the States. It’s yet another thing to let go of - to let them go their own way while wishing they would not. Being a parent is a lot of keeping your wishes to yourself. 

Sam is asleep and I find a photo from Max on WeChat. Apparently after we all made it back to the hotel at around 11:30, he headed back out. He sent a picture of a pint of IPA and said it was for me. Honestly, I’m not sure how I feel about that. But that’s because, I think, I’m not sure how I feel about anything this morning. I’m awash in distress over what is happening in our country, in the world generally. How do I try to live a life with inner peace and contentment - really - when there are such real existential threats? My kids tell me about a web site David Byrne has created, with good news only. I need to check that out, but even that feels like putting my head in the sand. I don’t know - maybe I’m just tired of traveling. 

+

We have a lazy morning and Sam does his wash and then we get it together and head out for a bite and we stop in a small shop and I eat just a bit too much and after last night’s over-indulgent hot pot. I’ve got a bloated and urgent sensation in my intestines. We walk down to the park where the temple is and I buy tickets and we go in and I head straight to the bathroom. I’m thinking China has finally caught up to me, and I’m thinking I’m feverish and have what Eli had a few days ago and now I’m going to have to go in and use a terrible public squat toilet and it’s probably what I deserve for being reckless last night, what with eating meat and fish. But it turns out the toilet is western style, with lockable compartments and western toilets, and afterwards I feel immediately better and I know I’m over it for now.

So we explore the temple, which is fairly large, as these things are - they’re never a single “Temple,” but are often complexes of buildings, with several temples and courtyards and support buildings and sometimes residences for priests and or nuns and tea rooms and gift shops and all of that. This one is no different, except it’s larger and seems to double as a park for a lot of people as the tea room, which has a large outdoor patio, is full of people, many of them playing cards or mahjong. After a short time Sam says he is going to call Peifen because it is Sunday so the three of us wander the temple and then wait for Sam to get off the phone so we can have tea together. But he doesn’t get off the phone and when he finally does at 5:00, he says he is not done and seems upset with us that we waited for him.

I get it - it can’t be an easy conversation to go on that long, and long-distance relationships are difficult enough to start with. And we are clearly a burden of responsibility for him - we walk into shops and let him order for us while we sit at the table, we follow him when we go places, we let him pay for things, call Didi’s, buy train tickets. I take care of the hotels, but beyond that I’m not much good. So I understand his frustration, and also ours: we did agree to a plan, and while Max can be flexible and I can to a point, Eli, who in many ways is the most flexible of all of us, can also get stuck on an idea, and today it’s that he wants to play mahjong. So we wait and we wait and I suggest the three of us go someplace else and they say sure, but then Max plays his flute and Eli lays down and when I suggest it again Max has to make plans for tomorrow and Eli just wants to play mahjong. So I get the key card from Sam and head back to the hotel, which is fine with me because I figure I ought to take it easy and it’s hot as hell and I can shower and read and maybe go out again when the light is better. 

We all manage to meet up eventually and we waltz down an alley and eventually we sit and have tea and play cards in a nice courtyard. We play American, a cross between spades and bridge it seems. I think, as I look around, that if I were thirty years younger, I would fall in love every three hours here in China, which is a quaint and less than completely honest way of saying that I find the women here to be very attractive. I don’t know if there are more attractive women here because there are simply more people, or what the reason might be. It seems the strong gender stereotypes we are all used to still prevail here. I have yet to see a man with long hair - or even longish hair - which is one reason why Sam attracts the stares of so many people. In the men, especially the older men, I can see a trace of anger, like the older, blue-collar workers of the sixties when they confronted hippies. All men, it seems, dress in a western style, with t-shirts and shorts being the predominant uniform here in the heat of the south. Some button downs, and long pants, but never jeans and never suits. They don’t seem to pay particular attention to their appearance, other than to keep their hair trimmed and faces clean. When it gets hot, they roll up their t-shirts and expose their bellies, regardless of its size or shade. 

Women, on the other hand, seem very style conscious and, as Sam has pointed out, many seem to have taken the time and care to make their own style. Much of it, if not all of it, tends toward the classically feminine, with slim, open toed and high heeled sandals, sheer materials, parasols setting off their light skin. Some sport figure-hugging long dresses with high slits and all kinds of combinations to set themselves apart. But, as Sam has also brought to my attention, there is but one shade of lipstick, which all women use, and one way to make up the eyes. From my seat in this cafe, I see at least a half dozen which catch my eye, and while I do not miss the longing I would have felt thirty years ago, and the attendant depression at my complete inability to act on any of it, I also do not enjoy its absence all that much. Instead, I notice a scratch on the particularly attractive leg of one woman, and I wonder how it got there, whether it bothers her and if anyone else in the world besides she and I are aware of its existence. It is these moments, along with the fact that my kids are beating my pants off in American, wherein I feel that I am clearly at the beginning of the end of my life.
