---
layout: post
title:  What's in the Will
---
Sitting in bed this morning with coffee, Janette and I began a discussion about Anna and what Rolf and Deborah must be going through.

“Anna has a gorgeous voice,” I say. “I’ve never heard Deborah sing, but I understand she’s got a good voice as well?”

“She’s a jazz singer,” Janette replies.

“Funny how those things get passed down by genes. I mean, everyone can improve their voice, but not everyone can sing as well as she can, even with years of lessons and practice. It reminds me of a former student of mine - another student asked how to get good SAT scores, and this guy said, ‘Have good genes.’ I said ‘Ouch!’ but the fact is, there’s a lot of truth there.”

“So what did you pass along to your kids?”

I think about this for a minute. “Well, French-Canadiens are known for their ability to show up to work on time and never call in sick.”

“That’s what you passed on?”

“Actually, I think it ends with my kids. How about you?”

“Mental illness. It is strong in my family. But what about artistic talent?

“Good question. I’m not sure where Max gets his. His grandfathers were a dentist and an accountant. His maternal grandmother killed herself in a garage - not very artistic of her - and my mother was a stay-at-home housewife who did some painting in her free time. With six kids, she didn’t have much.”

“How about Wendy? Was she artistic?”

“In her own way, for sure. More creative than artistic I would say. But Max’s conception and birth were different, and I think they set him on his path, whatever that is.”

“His conception?”

“Yeah, it was right after I came back from a ten-day vision quest, so I was all blissed out. Talking to trees and accepting of all things strange and unnatural. I said I thought we should have another baby, to give Sam a sibling, and Wendy said no, she wanted to go back to work. I said fine, ‘cuz, what else was I going to say? ‘No, stay here and be pregnant?’ Anyway, like four days later she discovered she was pregnant.”

“Wow! She must have gotten pregnant easily!”

“I’ll say. Three kids and we only had sex twice.”
