---
layout: post
title: My Little Bubble of Concern
---
Having dropped off my application for a visa at the China Embassy on Thursday, which Eli accurately described as the MVA but with Chinese people, and having gone through a photographic portfolio review that evening, I drove up to PA yesterday and am here through next Thursday, as M-W is the National Small Schools Conference which I am attending. Yesterday we met up with Jan, Janette’s half brother, and his wife Karen at a local winery, then went out to the cabin for dinner and a solstice bonfire. 

Jan and Karen don’t have children, and are polite enough to listen vaguely when the subject of Janette and my kids come up. I understand. I’m not particularly interested in a lot of my friends’ children either. Some of them, sure. Some friends of ours have a son who is an artist out in San Francisco, and I’ve seen his paintings on their wall, abstracts with powerful colors which suggest inner landscapes of confusion and beauty. So of course I’m interested in him, but for the kind of nameless kids who figure into the White American pastiche of corporate jobs and suburban realities, it’s impossible for me to keep up, though I occasionally feel like I ought to be better at it. I excuse myself with the thought that I have my three kids, three step-kids, ten nieces and nephews with seven kids of their own. Plus a couple of hundred kids that I’ve taught and vaguely track either through other teachers who stay in touch with them or through Facebook, which tells me I’ve been teaching too long if I have students old enough to be on that platform.

And really, what is the point of all this information? Little Billy got a new job with Staples after being laid off from Blockbuster and Karen’s adopted six more dogs from the rescue agency and Donny, of course, is still stuck in jail down in New Orleans. Do I know any of these people directly? No. It’s simply about sympathy, or empathy, that of one parent to another, and I suppose that’s enough, for only another parent can truly understand the range of confusion, devotion, heartache and utter joy that goes into raising children. And then, I suppose the glory of having relationships with your adult kids. I don’t know that fully as of yet, but the taste of it I have so far is intriguing. I think it’s the opportunity for parents to find some measure of peace for that part of our lives before dying.

My mother used to say that the only thing she and my dad wanted was to know that all of their six children were happy. I don’t know what “happy” meant to her, but the impression I got was that it was the absence of worry within her. “I just want to know you are happy” meant “Can I stop worrying about you?” To which the answer is absolutely not. Parents will always worry after their kids. That doesn’t mean both parties can’t be happy. 
