---
layout: post
title: Reunion
---
Had a nice chat this morning with Max. Sam sleeps in, so Max and I descend the many stairs to the alley and sit in a little cafe where we have coffee, tea and muesli. This morning while he talked, I was struck by how similar his approach to his life is to that of Anna’s - the myriad curiosities, talents and far-from-mainstream interests, in his case Tai-Chi, dance, meditation, making musical instruments from plants. All of it very creative and while it is not clear to me how this translates into earning a living, I trust that at some point it will. He’s smart and personable and enthusiastic, qualities that are welcome in all areas. He and Sam and I were walking through town last night, a relatively small place on the other side of the world, and someone comes up to us and says, “Hey Max!” It was a friend of the hostel owner he had met that afternoon, so we went to a club where we heard the guy - who later introduced himself as Han - sing and play guitar. Apparently, he does this on this side - as well as owning the hostel, which he says is just a side gig. He’s got a regular job as some sort of engineer, and according to Sam, this is not at all unusual - the sort of casual way Chinese will pick up or start a business. As Max says, they have not really learned the fear of failure yet.

Over our breakfast, Max comments on what he sees as an undercurrent of anger in many of the people here. We chalk it up to the heat, the crowding, the usual stresses. But I wonder about people my age, who were brought up under strict Socialism, who, as children, may even have witnessed the Cultural Revolution and who grew up with the understanding that while you may not get to do what you want, you do so in order to benefit the whole, and in return, the whole, or the state, will take care of your basic needs. Then, when they are into their forties or even later, they’re told, okay, everyone go out and be an entrepreneur, and I can imagine getting pissed off and saying hey, this is not the deal as I understood it. Reversing it, I think about how I would have handled it back in my forties if I had been told we don’t need teachers now, so you will work as a line welder in a tractor assembly plant. Wo knows? At the breakneck speed our country seems to be rushing toward Fascism, I may yet find out.

The cafe is part of a hostel and has that traveler’s vibe to it: couches and books and an eclectic menu, everything from muesli to Johnny Walker. Besides the gracious and friendly hosts, a quartet of Italians were the only other people there.  I like it; it feels comfortable to me.  But to Sam, who believes in total immersion, I can see where it would feel like a coward’s way to travel, though I’m sure he would never judge it that harshly. For the rest of us mortals though, it’s a nice way to soothe the rough edges of travel, which for me, this trip, are 1) the heat, 2) the language 3) not having easy access to money.

The heat is a chilling reminder of global climate change and a peek into our near future. It’s frightening. The outdoors becomes a place hostile to your body, where sunburn, sweat and heat exhaustion are your only sane responses. I can imagine many more people becoming nocturnal, and businesses altering their schedules to a Mediterranean model. The language is a problem because beyond hello and thank you, I’m just unable to remember any of it. I’m also reluctant to say “Ni-Hao!” (你好) for fear that people will respond in Chinese. Better to let them know I am an oaf right from the start.

Finally, getting Chinese Yuan has not been an easy task so far. Easier if I had thought to bring my debit card, but all I have are Visa cards, which don’t seem to translate - at least not yet - into cash. Sam uses WeChat to pay for everything, and we figure we’ll settle it all up at the end of the trip, but I don’t like not having cash to pay for things like coffee or water or whatever else I might want to pick up, like a personal air-conditioned wet suit. 

It’s Monday. I awoke to the sounds of birds and car horns, and now the cicadas have replaced the birds, but the car horns are eternal. With luck we will get to see Eli today. We’ll rent mopeds and drive around, swim in the Li river. There’s a bit of a breeze kicking up. A very large butterfly floats by, all black with some iridescent blue on its wings. It gives me a wave. Things are looking up.   

+

Max is off to Tai Chi class and Sam is awake. Sam is a creature of habits, and not one to get out the door quickly in the morning. I wait and look over the city and read and feel a bit of impatience as I am ready to start exploring. I have to remind myself that he has been here since last November and this is just another day for him; more so, I think the routines he has for himself are critical as he has little other structure in his life. I’m glad for him on that last note: he’s been working hard his entire life, and even now continues to code and to immerse himself in Chinese. His fluency, in such a short time, amazes me. I have no aptitude for languages at all.

He’s up and we hop on a couple of electric mopeds. They are somewhat beaten up, with scratches and tears in the seats - mine has a broken mirror - but they cost about $8/day to rent so we are not complaining. We join the river of traffic.

Chinese traffic laws are more suggestions than anything, and drivers ignore them as they see fit. If where you want to go means driving straight into oncoming traffic, well, just go ahead and trust that people will adjust. Intersections are a circus of performances, with pedestrians, trucks, farm equipment, mopeds, tricycles, bicycles and anything else they can get to move bouncing around within the geometry of a loosely defined circle, like an elementary school demonstration of the movement of atoms when heated. And in the course of it all, no one ever seems to get hurt or have an accident.

We are looking for the Old Banyan Tree, a plant which is reputedly some 1400 years old. I propose we take the bicycle trail and maybe some footpaths, but Sam is wary: he’s not all that confident on a moped, and so we stick to the streets. I’m imagining an unmarked trailhead to both it and Moon Mountain, a natural arch formation located not far from the tree. But my visions have little to do with reality: we cross through a gate, as one might when entering a national park, and the road is swarming with sightseers and mopeds, as thick as bees around a hive. We miss the tree and end up at Moon Mountain, where it costs 2 Yuan to park and 5 to enter the area. Immediately we are besieged by persistent old women, barely four feet tall, selling us water. After about the twentieth time we politely say no, they wander off, looks of utter dejection plastered on their deeply lined faces.

Apparently, Richard Nixon has been here. A sign tells the story: when he visited here in the early 1970’s, he saw the crescent-shaped hole in the mountaintop and suggested that it must have come from a missile test. When his hosts told him it was naturally occurring, he refused to believe it, and insisted on climbing the hill to see for himself. Since then, this path of 1000 steps has been known as the Nixon Trail, and so I get yet another chance to curse the man as I sweat on every single one of those steps leading up to the peak. 

When we get there, I am panting and soaked, and another diminutive lady wants to sell me water. She invites me to sit, and begins to cool me with her fan. I’m so impressed with her, that not only has she made this climb, but has done so with a cooler filled with water. I am happy to buy from her. It’s cold and wonderful and cost 10 Yuan, about $1.25.

The view sucks. Yes, the arch is natural, but it’s mainly gray-brown and rather uniform and dull to look at, like staring into a slightly mottled shoe box. We walk up to a viewing platform and in the blazing sun, take a few panoramic snapshots, then head back down. We’re baffled as to where all the photos we saw of this crescent were taken, because bamboo blocks all views of it coming up or retreating back down the trail. Only at the bottom, in the parking lot, do I turn around and see what is by far the best vantage point for the crescent hole: a prefect half moon in the ridge, just below the peak, a model for all the half-moon bridges we see in the countryside. 

It’s been thundering all afternoon and now the rain comes: blessed, cool, copious rain, and Sam and I sit under a building’s eave and, along with the rest of the population, stare at our phones. Across the way, just on the edge of the parking area, two women squat around an enormous wok cutting vegetables. Sam says he has long since given up asking “why” in this country.

We stop in at the tree, have milk tea and pay another entry fee. The tree is unlike anything I have ever seen, with branches dropping down their own trunks into what looks like an entire micro-system of a tree, like in the film <i>Avatar</i>, but any sense of reverence and awe seems absent in the resort-like atmosphere that has spread around it, with archery and pony rides and some sort of mini-opera taking place across the narrow river. 

After returning to the hotel for a shower and fresh clothes, I walk into the foray to meet Eli and Raven. We have a nice private hug, witnessed by dozens of passersby, and it feels so good to see him again. While he looks the same, his increased self-confidence and ease with himself is immediately apparent to me, and later he tells me that he has enjoyed his time so much he is considering returning next summer. 

This evening we have much to celebrate: Max has turned twenty-one at the beginning of the month, Eli eighteen just a week ago. We will celebrate his graduating high school, a ceremony his brothers were unable to attend, Sam’s successful six-month internship with Microsoft up in Beijing, and the four of us for making it here, for navigating the time in the aftermath of their mother’s death, for swimming through all that sorrow and making it safely to shore. For this time we have together.

We go to a fairly upscale hotpot restaurant, a Szechuan take on fondue that is delicious and dripping with oils. We toast ourselves and Raven and anything else we can think of: for the first time we four are together as adults. We toast Max turning twenty-one, Eli turning eighteen, Raven for caring for Eli at camp. I am content and happy and proud of my children and sit quietly for the most part, eating and drinking it all in. There is no ringing of celestial bells, no ceremonious demarcation, no bright red chevron dropping into the timeline. We are a fairly ordinary group of people, out for dinner on a Monday, and yet I can’t shake the feeling that I am sitting with three extraordinary people (I can’t speak for Raven, though she certainly seems so in her own right) and we are simply gathered to eat and to talk, the way families do all over the world. I wonder if all parents feel this way, that within a glove much like other gloves, there lives an extraordinary hand of offspring, unique and pulsing and young and gifted. I should be thankful for that glove, I muse, because it is the brightly-feathered that get targeted. My father advised me to be neither too much one way nor the other, and for a long time I resented him for passing this down to me, the safety of the middle. I blamed it for keeping me from doing great things. Of course that was self-serving bullshit, and now I appreciate his wisdom (and wonder how he would feel learning about Buddha’s Middle Way), and for just the briefest of moments, I allow myself to see, in the faces of my three children, the great thing I have accomplished, and how it fits with the billions of other similar miracles throughout the world and throughout the history of our species. This everpresent, ordinary miracle. 
