---
layout: post
title: WeChat with Sam and Eli
---
Dad: Eli, how is it going over there?

Eli: Second group of kids just left

Eli: I am tired

Eli: But generally things are okay

Eli: I’m tanning like crazy

Eli: I’ve made several magic wands

Eli: How’s everything back home

Sam: today’s your day off right?!

Sam: going into Shanghai again?

Sam: eat some xiaolongbao!

Eli: Naw just the supermarket today

Eli: THE CARTS ARE SO GOOD

Eli: FOUR WHEEL DRIVE

Eli: AMERICA HAS NOTHING ON THIS

Sam: you find the strangest things exciting

Eli: They’re so smooth! I feel like this is valid!

Dad: Communist consumer culture.

Sam: socialism with Chinese characteristics

Dad: Is China socialist or communist, do you think? Officially, it’s communist

Sam: China is a capitalist dictatorship/plutocracy

Sam: it is socialist in name only

Sam: interestingly enough, there isn’t even a Chinese word for Communism

Sam: there's socialism and Marxism, but not Communism not really.

Dad: Really?? That’s really interesting. Do they refer to it as socialist?

Sam: yes

Dad: I see

Sam: so the CCP “Chinese Communist Party” could actually literally be translated as “China public property party”

Sam: No mention of communism or socialism actually

Dad: Very cool.

Eli: Yall’ve lost me 

Dad: Sorry! How’s your Chinese coming along?

Eli: yi er san si wu leo qi ba jiao (?) shi

Dad: Meaning . . . .

Eli: One through ten

Eli: And bai is 100

Eli: yi bai leo kuai

Eli: 160 yuan

Eli: leo shi er kuai

Eli: 62 then

Dad: Well, when you’ve seen Yuan, you’ve seen it all.

Sam: no father no

Dad: Aww, c’mon You gotta give me a few dad jokes every once in a while.

Eli: Unfortunately, Yuan is pronounced like Yuen.

Dad: Well thuen . . .  .



Dad: Man. Tough crowd.

Eli: Your crowd is a bunch of cynics sorry

Dad: Ah, I don’t believe that. I think you are just embarrassed to admit that I am hilarious.

Eli: Oh well of course that as well

Eli: I assumed that was just given

Eli: I mean in addition

Dad: Where is Max on this channel, anyway? I’m sure he would have insight to add to this very compelling topic. 

Sam: his account was flagged at setup

Sam: I have to sit down with him and fix it

Dad: What does that mean?

Sam: WeChat doesn’t trust him already

Dad: Oh my Lord

Dad: He’s going to get us all arrested.
