---
layout: post
title:  Wine, Women and No Song
---
We head over to Tiananmen Square and there we are, beneath the large portrait of Mao, with red flags flying and stiff guards and super-sized sculptures of heroic, fighting peasants. But everyone in the square is relaxed and happy and dressed in western clothing, and everyone is taking pictures of everything, which I figure must be a security nightmare. But then again, the state is taking more pictures than anyone, for the security cameras, in row upon row, are not to be missed. 

We can’t get in of course, but we can get through first one gate then another, and it’s only the city proper that is closed, so we have lunch in a small place and a couple of thirty-something women come over and ask if they can take photos with us. “Ask” is a polite word for it, since they basically say, this is what we are going to do, and I am amused at both what it feels like to be this kind of low-level celebrity and taken aback by their complete lack of personal space. One woman sidles up right next to me, oblivious to how her body is now touching mine and it’s a bit of a shock how good it feels to have a woman’s soft touch against me.

From there we go to Jingshan Park which overlooks the city and Eli falls asleep on a granite wall surrounded by about 1000 Chinese tourists, all of whom are taking photos of themselves with the famous landmark as background. After a stroll through another famous alley, and a bus ride, a seat at a table in a restaurant which we leave after looking at their prices, another false start at a place which tells us the wait is three hours long, and then a long Didi ride in stalled Beijing traffic, we end up at yet another mall - Cartier store on the first floor puts “Some Girls” in my head (“French Girl’s want Cartier, Italian girls want cars, American girls want everything in the world you can possibly imagine!”) and we have a really nice dinner of Beijing Roast Duck née Peking Duck and my first taste of Chinese wine. This confirms my previous experiences with American Chinese restaurants, in that none of them know how to serve wine. They open it out of sight, plop it down on the table without pouring, and I find it is much too warm, as always. Not hot as it is in some American places, but well above the very clearly marked temperature range on the back label that even I can read and I still know about 3 Chinese characters, total. (Person, entrance, and China.) After we eat the mushrooms they bring us the duck, and some vegetarian dishes for Sam, and after we finish half the bottle none of it matters of course because now we are happy and the wine has reached room temperature anyway. 

It is here, in this happy state, that I concoct my plan for how I shall use my time during my first few days back in the states: Sleep, shower, repeat. For about 3-4 cycles. I don’t know if it’s the pollution or the heat or both, but I am constantly wanting a shower these days. My children agree that this is a good plan.
