---
layout: post
title:  America
---
We get coffee and I want to buy some gifts for people back home, so we walk in the rain to a store that is just “one Beijing block” away, which means when we are done, we take the metro back. It’s a mad house, with more people than I have ever seen in a station, and because we are at the Beijing railway stop, it means they are all coming in from out of town with luggage and absolutely no idea as to how to work the ticket machines. The line takes forever, and we get back to the hotel with just enough time to check out and head to the airport. 

It’s raining and gray and I remark that this is the first such day on our entire trip. Between the weather and Eli’s and my exhaustion and the craziness of the metro, we tally up signs that it is time for us to head out of China: Eli and I to the States and the deteriorating madness that awaits us there, and Sam to India to connect with Max - or not, as it turns out. Max, it seems, has decided on a tour of the country, something set up for him by the ukulele-playing Indian he met upon his arrival, something that smells a lot like a way for the Indian to part Max from his money. Sam’s not too happy either - he was going to India primarily to travel with Max, but does not want to go on an expensive, whirlwind tour. Nevertheless, they aim to reconnect in Kathmandu, which puts the Bob Seeger song in my head, unfortunately. 

Eli and I are very early to the airport, because of course we are. The airport is immense and dramatic. “You remember this place?” I ask Eli.

“Was I here before?”

“On your way to camp? You met Sam here and got your connecting flight to Hangchou.”

“No, I don’t remember this at all. To be fair I was about 30 hours in at that point.”

Indeed. On top of that, the airport is so vast it’s easy to imagine he never made it to this port of the place. After going through the passport check, we are directed into a room that says, “No admittance” and I am thinking we have been flagged for one thing or another, but other than a very thorough metal check by a young man with a wand, there does not seem to be anything special about it. The amount of relief I feel when they wave us through surprises me.

Earlier this morning, I actually swapped out the CF card in my camera so that if they asked to see what I had on it, I would have just a few innocuous snaps of the scene outside my hotel window and a couple of very short videos I shot, which save on a separate card. Yes, I am that paranoid, especially after shooting nuclear power plants out the train winder, though what logical reason there would be for my fear remains elusive. Such is the nature of being paranoid, I guess.

Eli talks about the guy who passed him through customs on his way into the country. “How come you remember him and not this huge building?”

He thinks for a minute, then says, “I don’t know. I guess he had more of an impact on my way through here. Like, he could have sent me packing.”

This sounds reasonable and of course I immediately turn it into self-criticism: I should learn from him and be more connected to people, I tell myself, than to buildings.

+

Eli and I sit in the back of the plane, which is filled with mostly Chinese. A lot of them seem to be college students, heading to the US either for the first time or returning to school. One kid wears a sweatshirt labeled, “Applied Physics and Engineering.” Eli says, “I can never be that person’s friend.”

The crew is mostly American with a couple of Mandarin speakers so that the announcements are made twice, and I notice a subtle racism in the way the older white woman seems to take care of me before the Asians around me. It’s not overt at all, and it could simply be she’s responding to someone in her own age bracket. I choose to believe that, though her catering to Eli as well makes that more difficult to hold.

After about thirteen and a half hours, we are descending into Virgina. I look out the window and see it’s a gray, rainy evening, as though the rain has followed us from Beijing. Then I see a thick bolt of lightning reach from cloud to ground, and I think, “That’s not a good omen.” We land safely though, and taxi to our gate, and then sit. The captain explains that because of the storm that has passed through, all flights had been held up, so there’s no gate for us to park at. We end up waiting for maybe 20 minutes, which feels like a week after such a long flight. Finally, the seat belt light goes off and everyone pops up out of their seats, as though we had all been cinched upon springs.

And we stand and wait. And wait. The captain again: “Seems like the person driving the gateway is having trouble getting up to the plane. She’s almost there, so it should be just another minute or two and we’ll get you out of here.” I turn to Eli. “Welcome to America,” I say.

It’s true. In China, everything went smoothly. We got through Hong Kong in one of its lulls between protests and violent crackdowns; only once did we have to change plans due to transportation issues; the trains were fantastic and precisely on time, every time; we got to Beijing during what must have been some of the nicest weather it had all summer. Meals were all good, and even the midnight surprise by the police amounted to nothing.

The line moves; the line stops. We wait some more. I figure its being held up by the dorky transport busses Dulles uses so as not to spoil the integrity of the terminal’s architectural form. (Underground, anyone?) This turns out to be correct, as we have to stop two more times before getting onto a shuttle. The corridors are shabby and at one point, hand printed signs tell us that the more permanent signs are wrong and we should not pay attention to them. But people do anyway, which brings loud American barks from a tired and bored security guard. “Chinese workers have a lot more fun,” Eli observes.

We finally get to customs and follow the signs leading us to the “Citizens” line, which is just as long as the “Foreigners” queue. And for the life of me, I cannot tell, from looking around at the people in both lines, what the difference is. Really, anyone could be forgiven for thinking they were in the wrong line, as the people who share our wait are as varied and diverse as they come: Asians, South Asians, Africans, Muslim women in full Hijabs, Indian women in glowing Saris. (All the men, of course, are dressed the same. Or rather, we all under-dress the same, which is to say, next to women, we look like slobs in our t-shirts and shorts.)  Hispanic families line up and, of course, we whites, who are in the distinct minority. Which, it occurs to me, is a reflection of the world.

Truly, after the homogeneity of China, this is a sweet moment. I’m actually quite thankful to be home and in this place where, in theory at least, all are welcome. 

We make it through customs easily and run into some more not-so-subtle racism in the Lyft on the way home. As I sit in the back of this guy’s car, listening to him probe us for like-mindedness, I remember a video I have recently seen of a white guy going off on a young woman because she is wearing a t-shirt with the Puerto Rican flag on it. “You’re not going to change us!” he screams at her as she tries to set up her picnic. “You’re not going to change America!”

He’s wrong, of course, and it’s obvious to anyone who is half awake. Change is the nature of things, from civilizations, to nations, to individuals. The issue isn’t change, but our own sleepfulness. We grow old without noticing it, and the young replace us while we celebrate ourselves. Nations rise and ebb, as do we, and our children will be replaced by our grandchildren and each carries within it the seed of the next. If we could stop trying to defend ourselves and celebrate whoever has come to pick up the torch, think of how we could replace anger with acceptance, guns with butter, resentment with joy. This will never happen, I remind myself, and that’s okay. It’s enough, as I used to tell my kids, to try and be a force for good in the world.

The Lyft driver gives us our bags and drives away. I punch in the key code to the front door, and Eli and I step into a bright and warm house, where the cats await us. We are home. 
