---
layout: post
title: Aging
---
Last day of the heat wave today. Forecast is for 97, and only 90 tomorrow. It makes me lazy. The lawn beckons to be cut, and I sit inside, where it is a cool 76, and think of the energy I’m saving by neglecting it.

My sister Carole - the next youngest of my siblings - emailed me yesterday and said she is now eligible for Social Security payments. My oldest brother Michael and his wife, Maria, are driving up to Jacksonville to celebrate their youngest child turning 30. Marc, the next in line, and his wife Susan, have five grandchildren; Charlotte, number three, and her husband Rich have two. Charlotte just turned 70, which means half of us are that old. 

One reason I don’t feel my age (as though any of us, at this age, really do) is because I had my children late. I had Zach when I was 28, and it wasn’t for another ten years that I had Sam. Then Max at 40 and Eli at 43. Janette, on the other hand, had her kids between the ages of 25 and 30. Another reason I don’t feel so old is because I am terribly  immature for my age.

In his book <i>Sixty</i>, Ian Brown struggles with the whole aging process, but I don’t all that much. Willful disbelief, I guess. I look in the  mirror and I see a head with little discernible gray (though my eyebrows are, which is completely backwards) and I don’t feel old. Conveniently, all my varicose veins are on the backs of my legs, where I cannot see them at all. But then I see a photograph of myself, and it’s shocking. Unlike in the mirror, photos show me to be not just old, but frail. I see my ancestors in these photos, elderly people with prominent noses and ears whose world constricted to include three or four rooms in a darkly-lit house, age spots and a seemingly deep-rooted loneliness that a lifetime’s worth of religious faith could not forestall. Perhaps we all end up there; as our senses weaken, our lives become more and more dominated by the interior monologue, and who knows where that takes us. I have moments lately when I really let my mind go wherever it wants, and where it goes frightens me because it is dreamlike and seductive and feels like the land of senility. Nice to visit for ten or fifteen second lapses, but not a place I want to be and have the return door slammed shut.

So I joked to Janette the other day that I want to start stockpiling painkillers, and it’s made ever more real when I admit that my starter pack is the leftover opiods that killed Wendy and that I’ve never known what to do with. But I definitely want that agency, whether I choose to use it or not, when I get to that point where I may want to bail. For me, right now, that point is the colostomy bag. Dave, my boss, said there was no way he was going to have his kids wipe his ass. And of course we bravely say these things now, but who knows how we might rationalize the desire to stay alive when faced not so much with death, which is really just a name for the transition, but non-existence. That state of myself before I was born. What will I know of my kids? becomes an absurd question because it’s not a matter of something being omitted. When I currently say, “I didn’t know,” there is an explicit acknowledgment that there are other things I do know, and that I have the capacity to know what I don’t, if not now then as soon as someone fills me in. But death transitions us to non-being, wherein there is no capacity to know, no awareness. Unlike Zach, I hope and pray, when my children die I will be unaware because there will be no I, no them, no death. 

It sounds morbid, but thinking about this stuff wakes me up, makes me look outside our window at the wall of trees in the park and fall in love with the thousands of shades of green I see, with the light, with the sound of the cat’s sigh and my own seemingly interminable need to pee. This, I want to shout to the blue sky hovering in bleached-out silence above the skylights, but I can’t find the words. Or really, the energy.  This heat.
