---
layout: post
title:  Retreat
---
I’m at the Retreat and Conference Center at Bon Secours, in Marriottsville, Maryland, which is exactly what it sounds like: a conference center on the grounds of an old convent. I’m in my room, which feels like a hotel room except that there is no television, no refrigerator, and a crucifix on the wall above the bed. (Why does it always have to go there? It’s like having a medal to St. Theresa on your pants zipper.) There’s also no art or wall hangings of any kind, which I find a bit odd, but there’s a lovely view out the window of a pond and some autumn-colored trees, so I’m good.

I’m here for a two-day retreat on Finding Your Inner Compass, put on the by the Center for Courage and Renewal. Both those titles give me pause: my inner cynic asks, “Just how far down this fucking rabbit hole have you gone, anyway?” It’s so touchy-feely. There is one other guy here, a man named David who, judging by the ages of his children, is about fifteen years younger than me. The rest of the circle, and I mean that both literally and metaphorically, is made up of women, so there are regular, collective sighs of “ohhhh” when someone speaks as the sound of empathy fills the room. I’m not at all put off by this, I have to say - it’s endearing and helpful, though the use of contemporary jargon gets under my skin a bit - “dialoguing” and “generative discussions” and “convos.” I mean, what happened to talking? George Carlin is rolling in his grave, for sure, because as he points out, the more syllables we use to describe something, the more distance we put between it and ourselves.

Still, I can overlook this. It’s a group of well-meaning, sweet people, all of whom are involved in what we call the “healing professions” in one form or another: bereavement support, teaching, supporting and assisting parents of severely disabled kids. Most people are here, it seems, to try and figure out a) what they want to do with their lives as they work through some transition and b) how to reconcile the needs of others with their own. And as we talked our way through that conversation, it seemed to become clear that those things are not at all at odds, and when they are, it is because of perspective more than anything.

Being present, without judgement, is self-care. Which means accepting that part of who I am is a grumpy, self-centered aging man with legs marbled by varicose veins and a lingering preoccupation with my place in the universe. Okay! So I’m vain about those veins, and what to do? I can have surgery, which is to admit my vanity; I can wear long pants, even when it’s 95 degrees outside and hide my vanity behind a mild eccentricity, or I can channel my inner Zero Fucks guy and either show off my legs or wear proudly my support hose. With garters.

Not going to happen.

One thing it would appear that I’m not going to get this weekend is rest. Seems like the agenda is pretty full, and tomorrow when I get home Janette’s friend Lenny will be there, and possibly a couple of other guests. Then back to school on Monday, and we do this all over again. So while I appreciate the chance to “dialogue about regenerative ideas in a no-judging and supportive group environment,” I think what I really need is about a week of sleeping and sitting in a sauna. That, and some good wine in the evenings is about my style of self-care right now.
