---
layout: post
title: Fear
---

When my kids were with me at Leslie Street, which is the house I moved into with Janette, she would often accuse me of “being different” than I was when they were not around. Accused is my word; from her, it came out as a tone-drab and olive explanation of why we were so emotionally distant and unable to connect when my kids were with me. I denied it, at least in part, or explained that of course I was different in that I had responsibilities, I had to give them my attention and could not afford to give it all to her. Which was true as far as it went, but I didn’t bother to look much beyond that. With my focus on them, I did not want to look too deeply at myself. I believed my explanation. Or thought I did.

Now, I look back and as with so many things I see in the  mirror, the whole thing has flipped and looks odd to me, like seeing an inverted reflection of my face. It’s not a bad thing; it’s fresh, and I believe Janette was right: with no kids at all these past two weeks, I do feel differently. I feel looser, like I’m coming apart, like I might do anything, and it’s not entirely a bad feeling. At times there’s even a kind of joy, moments that are never now, but just past, like a lost name recalled. Maybe it’s just a sense of freedom from immediate responsibilities, like constantly having to get dinner on the table. 

My responsibilities as a father, as someone at work, as a son, a husband, a friend - they all feel similar to me.  They are roles to fill, and while carrying them out there’s a shadow looming over my shoulder, looking for someone more true. More authentic. The glimpses I catch though, are cartoon forms, heavy black outlines and solid, garish colors. I imagine most people feel these things, and it makes some sense, I suppose. If we all let our true selves, whatever they may be, come through foremost in these roles, I don’t think we would understand one another - we’d all be poets, but the verses wouldn’t make much sense to one another. Roles keep us connected; they are the forms we expect to see, and when Daddy dresses up like a clown or doesn’t show up for a couple of days, it can be frightening. 

How much of who you truly are can you let your children see? Don’t you owe it to them to protect them from that? On the one hand, I don’t think it’s good for kids to hear how many women their dad has slept with or how many drugs he’s used or what impulsive, anti-social acts he has committed. It’s too wide a path for them to traverse from side to side as they go forward; I think they need a narrower set of bumpers, because at some point they are going to want to expand themselves beyond their family of origin, beyond the restrictions of their behaviors growing up, and if it has been sanctioned for those to already be far afield, the only places left for them to go would get them in trouble with the law, or addicted, or pregnant. In this sense, role models are important. They keep us safe and provide a safe path which we are free to leave and return to.
Role models in another sense of course are not real at all, and it’s no surprise either that when they break they perform perhaps their most important function. Failure humanizes us all, and limn out that which would otherwise blend too much with the background of an indifferent world. We love others not despite their faults, but in part because of them.

Of course some parents are open and honest right from Day One, blowing smoke carelessly toward the ceiling and cursing and showing their scars from the C-section as if daring their children to call them on it, knowing at last, here’s one living thing which won’t. And maybe that’ is its own kind of restraint, but I did not want to take that chance. I was too afraid of my own vagaries, how far afield I might go, or had been. 

There exists a photo somewhere, held mainly in my memory I believe, and my memory may be entirely inaccurate, but there is a photo in my mind of my father, taken when he was in his late twenties I’d guess, in which he stands on a pair of skis, hatless, clad otherwise in leather jacket and gloves. A long, unlit cigarette dangles from the corner of his mouth. His stance, the tilt of his head, and the look of his face - guarded, with eyes as black as dinner plates and a mouth set too firmly into a smile, like he’s tired of your bullshit but too nice a guy to say so - even the angle of the camera, which is looking uphill, all combine to display my father in a kind of naked glory: naked in that he cannot conceal anything, no matter how hard he tries to keep in the impatience, the sense of lackluster resignation to it all, to having to grow up, to suffer, to drink with friends, to having to fall in love and marry, to having to buy and sell his time and drink coffee so bad it made his teeth hurt: to having to do this skiing, to fall downhill in countable, measured segments that give him a false sense of control, which he knows but can never admit isn’t real, doesn’t stack up in any way to the inevitable, oversized muscle of gravity which pulls so steadily he can easily lose his balance and fall more swiftly than his imagination can possibly render. His face loose, smiling, even laughing a bit. Terrified.

Nothing, it seems to my memory, was more terrifying to the man than an invasion of his privacy. His private thoughts, his ways, his utterly irretrievable emotions. He let no one care for him save my mother, and when she got old, after he died, her memories of my father seemed based more on her wishes than whatever it was that passed between the two of them. His head, square and gray, would often tilt back as though he were considering something, but if he was, he kept it to himself. Occasionally I’d see his eyes shine. Most times it was when he was with friends, and they never stayed lit for long; I got the sense that it left him vulnerable, and as a father, husband, doctor, good Catholic, etc., a man of the United States in its moment of greatest triumph, this would not do. So much decorum to uphold in our little town on the outskirts of prosperity.

I think of this picture from time to time when I think of my father which, if truth be told, is not all that often. And the reason I think of it is because it could so very well have been me at that same age, harboring those same resentments while surrounded by open pathways to freedom. Did he know they existed? Did he, like me, have a vague feeling that maybe it didn't have to go this way, that maybe the suffering was not something to be avoided but to be embraced, that it was a path to something not described in our Catechism books or in science or even in - God forbid! - art or something “Eastern,” but only within the space between our particulate selves, always the possibilities, never the deed. That, of course, is impossible; too much to be done. For him, it was teeth to be drilled and filled; for me, not teeth but responsibilities.

He longed for something so much that while in his early teens he and a friend rode bicycles from his boarding school in Montreal 600 miles to West Warwick, Rhode Island. The bicycles were steel and boasted fat, bloated tires with hard seats and no gears. No water bottles or sleek clothing; I imagine instead some heavy wool clothing and spare maps. They slept in barns along the way, and made it home in time for Christmas.

I don’t know what else hurt the man, but surely being sent way, that young, when what he wanted was the comfort of his family, to a Catholic boarding school in another country, must have formed his idea of what love was for the remainder of his life. Love was sacrifice all right, but not offered up to the tender Jesus to somehow ease His Suffering, but unnoticed loneliness, and forever duty to God, invisible and lurking, like the cold hand of a nun. He yearned for sweetness and warmth, but the home was gone, so he married instead. After boarding school, college and dental school, he entered the war, where he met my mother. He was 30 when they married, and she just 22. There is another picture, this one of the two of them dressed in their navy uniforms, looking exactly as glamorous and romantic as you can imagine such a photo to be. It’s an image to put in a frame, for sure, but that’s a bad idea. Once you put a moment like that in a framet you have to live up to it and of course, you can’t. How that tears us apart! To see exactly and precisely, in deep shades of gray and white, the moments that stand in for us, our stunt doubles stealing the limelight, our unstudied selves far outdoing us, robbing us of everything we work for.  How can this be? How can we learn to forget ourselves that easily?

She was coat checking at the officer’s club, just for tips and something to do, when he heard her complaining that all the officers would take their numbers and then never call. So my dad unfolded  a ten dollar bill, unleashing his inner Cary Grant I suppose, and said, “Here’s a promise that I will call.” So she gave him the number, then went out and spent the ten.

They were married on Valentine’s Day, in a Catholic church of course, after she converted from some form of Protestantism, and the photos afterward changed into color prints and then slides and then Polaroids, square, ejected  packets of mystery that came alive in front of your eyes and then just as quickly dimmed into the avocado and oat colors of the 1970’s. The photos went into boxes mainly - I cannot recall a single wall decoration in our house, not a painting or a photography; not because they weren’t there, but because they were designed to be as unremarkable as a front lawn. My mother used to say that her boxes of photos were her prize possession and that in case of fire, they would be the first thing she grabbed. 

Now I have them, many of them anyway, along with my dad’s camera. I never look at them, but they sit in my memory and turn yellow, their scalloped edges curling ever so slightly. They are all I have left of him, and in some ways, more than I ever had. 
