---
layout: post
title: Role Models
---
Yesterday was the first year anniversary of my mother’s death. She was 95. My father died when Max was still in utero, so 21-1/2 years ago, when he was 82. 

My oldest brother, who is now 72, was born nine months and four days after my parents got married, which caused a lot of counting on fingers apparently. My mom rued the fact that she got married in a gray dress, because the war (World War II of course, though haven’t there been a gazillion other wars?) had taken all the white material. They had five kids in their first seven years of marriage, and five years after that, had me. I was an oops, but then, I don’t really see a whole lot of family planning going on there anyway. My dad was a dentist, but kept it real, which is to say he was a soft touch for people who were struggling. He did all the dental work for the parish priests and nuns for free, and took Wednesdays and Saturday afternoons off, giving him a four-and-a-half day work week. Mom never worked outside the home until much later, so our home was decidedly middle class, with the two girls sharing a small bedroom and the boys, at various stages, using a partially finished basement as a bedroom. While I thought this was cool at the time, in retrospect it was an immensely damp place, considering it flooded quite often and we’d be woken up at ungodly times in the middle of the night to use snow shovels to scoop the water into buckets which we would then empty into the utility sink. Both parents had Depression-era habits, such as saving tin foil and having us re-use our brown paper lunch bags, but my dad in particular could be rather tight with the money. A sump pump was out of the question when he could have his kids do the work, and he refused to buy my mom, a dryer, even though they could afford membership in a  private golf club. And European vacations.

Everyone in town went to Catholc schools as kids, but after eighth grade, most of my friends went to public high school. Us Maynard kids went to Catholic high school, which was one way I knew we were slightly different from and better off than my friends’ families. (The golf club membership was a big clue.) But when I think about my friends from that time, all the fathers, with one exception, were removed, authoritarian when they did appear, and uniformly sour. The exception was my next door neighbor's father, Mr. Enos, who was generally friendly and built his son John a go-cart from a wooden plank and a lawn mower engine. The seat was from a metal lawn chair, and the brake a simple lever that pushed against the rear tire. We tore up and down the street in that thing and he seemed to share our joy. He died in a car accident when I was still quite small..

The one male teacher I had in my K-8 schooling was in the 6th grade, and I liked him a lot. I was rather schocked when I ran into him several years later  and recongized that he was gay. And not just gay, but rather flamboyantly so. It wasn’t like I cared one way or another, but it was a shock realizing that I had not known that before - that it took me waking up to my own sexuality and learning a bit more about the world to be able to put his behavior into context. Which I think is interesting when people worry about small children having gay teachers; at that age, you have absolutely no frame of reference to define anyone in much of any classification, other than boy, mysterious and icky girl, and adult. 

Once in high school, I had a few secular male teachers, and many more that were Brothers, a sort of priest without the cachet. The high school I attended was big into sports (which I was not) and about half the teachers reflected that - football coaches who also taught Biology for instance, rather than the other way around. All of which is to say, when I search my memory for adult men after who I may have patterned my life, I’m not coming up with any names, really.

Of course there is my father, and that is complicated. There are so many ways in which we pass down who we are from generation to generation: chromosomally of course, and explicitly. And to my way of thinking, most powerfully, subconsciously.

For instance, when I consider what I find attractive in women, I happen to know that my preferences overlap my dad’s quite a bit. Any amateur psychologist will tell you that it’s probably because of my mother; that she clearly exhibited those things which he found attractive, and she, being my mother, became the ideal, or at least a model, of what kind of woman I would find attractive. And I can buy that to an extent. But does that include an attraction to women’s legs? Wouldn't that be more subtly passed on? Did I pick up on signals he may have sent out through remarks he made, or didn’t make, about women he saw while driving me to school? To be honest, he was not the kind of man who would have made such a remark. At least not in front of his son. 

Then there are the traits which I have actively tried, and often have failed, to to un-follow. My dad, up until the day he died, never once said the words “I love you” to me. Or to any of us kids as far as I know. I never even heard him say it to my mother, though I’ve no doubt that he did. There were no hugs, no arms around the shoulder - no physical touch at all between us. 

I’ve changed that with my kids. I showed them physical affection when they were small  and we still hug today. I tell them I love them. But there is a legacy of so many subtle attitudes and behaviors we aren’t even aware of that gets passed from father to son, on and on for generations. Where it starts is not so important as just seeing it, naming it, holding it in one’s hand and saying, “Is this something I want to pass on?” 
