---
layout: post
title:  What I Miss
---
I cancelled the appointment with the Doctor of Death -  for the euthanasia - and am trying to find out more about the radioactive iodine therapy. If nothing else, having Merlin be radioactive for several days seems oddly like justice.

+

Now I am up at the cabin with Janette. I ask, “Where did that tree come from?”
“This one? It’s been there.”
I look up at it. It’s at least 25 five feet tall, and I just don’t remember anything that large being there. “But it’s so big! I don’t remember it being that big.”
“Yeah, it’s fast growing.”
“What is it?”
“It’s a cottonwood tree.”
I look at it again. It’s got a rough bark, and branches splaying out, but mostly up. “How big is it going to get?’
“Oh, they get pretty big. Like maybe eighty, ninety feet. It’s going to dominate this whole area.”
“Did we plan for that? Like, did we plant that? Because I know we considered a tree there at one time.”
“Nope! Just a volunteer.”
“Well, I guess it kind of works out.”
“Yeah! It's going to provide nice shade for the cabin.”
“How long do they live?”
She laughed. “A lot longer than us!”
I considered that. The tree and a lot of other things, I thought.
“I just don’t understand,” I said. “I kind of remember a small tree there. How in the world did it get to be so big? It’s going to be a feature of this place for a long time to come.”
She looked at me with her honest, open face, her skin soft around her eyes and her brows raised, ever so slightly. “I guess you were busy,” she said. “You haven’t been up here in a while.”

My whole life, I think, is there in that cottonwood tree. 
