---
layout: post
title: Work and Play
---
Charlotte turns 70 today. She’s the third of us six kids to reach that age; I lag behind at 61. Payback for when I was six.

Two nights ago, I opened a bottle of nice wine for Janette and me. We were all alone in the house and the next day were to take the bikes up to the barn in Pennsylvania, a permanent move for them and a milestone in this whole transition from parenting in Silver Spring to being empty-nesters in West Chester. So we drank half the bottle and then went a mile or two away to dinner in a new place we’d just hear about.

It is a wine and beer store with tables outside where you can sit and order food. On Mondays, it turns out, they do away with the corkage fee and so for the price of a bottle of wine off the shelf, you can have it with your dinner. So of course we did that. And of course we returned home to finish the original bottle.

So after two bottles of wine, we dragged ourselves out of bed the next morning and got on the Triumphs and rode them in ninety degree weather for seven hours. It takes that long on the bikes because we stick to back roads and we take a lot of breaks. We dropped the bikes at the barn and got a lift to West Chester from our friend Michael and sat around drinking some more, and some part of me has this weird pride in being able to do this at my age, at our age I should say (Janette is 56), and I get it into my head that it’s our generation somehow that learned to work hard and party hard and do them both well, like we’re some sort of special because we drink too much.

And then we slept hard and woke up this morning all puffy-faced, aching and tender where our skin got burnt by the sun and the wind and of course it changes nothing in my head. And while I still take some sort of weird pride in my work and wine consumption, at the same time I aim for this whole other way of being: meditating twice a day, yoga each morning, trading my coffee for green tea. Burning incense and being in touch with the solstice which, I realize is also weird and kind of bullshit, just as the first mindset is, but I still like them both.

And the bikes are another source of weird self-creation. It’s something Janette and I both love to do, and we really love to do it together. We have bluetooth communicators in the helmets so we can talk to one another while we ride, which is mostly logistic stuff, because for the most part you just want to ride and look around and pay attention to what is going on. There’s a thrill to moving over rolling country roads at 50 mph that you can't replicate in a car or on any other type of machine as far as I know. 

And, if I'm completely honest, I think there’s a little ego in there. When I sometimes would take it to school and the kids would ask about it, I felt maybe it was one last link to cool. And then I hit 55 miles per hour and my triceps start flapping in the wind and there’s nothing cool there, at all. 

Though maybe there is. Janette asked to stop at the “Welcome to Pennsylvania” sign so she could take my picture and document our moving of the bikes as one more moment in History.. So she texted it to me and I posted it on the Maynard Slack Channel and Sam replied, “You’re looking pretty cool, Dad.” 

So that’s it. Everything in the will goes directly to him. 

