---
layout: post
title: Losing It
---
Janette is one of the hardest working people I’ve ever known. After enduring her childhood and some other horrors which I won’t spell out, she made her way to the US and the University of Georgia. 7.8 on the Culture Shock Richter Scale. The school took all of their foreign students, walked them over to the football stadium and taught them how to chant, “Go Dawgs!” 95% of them had no clue what American football was, what they were doing there or why all the beer was so terrible. She had had a few years of English in school, and built on that to work her way to a degree in four years, then earned a Master’s. Got married, had three kids and at some point moved to Virginia where she threw herself into being a mom, baking everything from scratch and trying to give her kids a childhood as far removed from hers as she could construct.

Eventually she divorced her husband, took the three kids and moved to Washington DC, where she managed to scrape together enough cash to buy a house, then put on an addition. She paid for this by coming home from work each day, cooking dinner for her kids, cleaning up from dinner, getting the kids settled and into bed, and then going down into the basement and cutting, polishing and soldering together stained-glass windows until late at night. When I met her in 2009, she had stopped the stained glass work but was working two jobs. She worked as admission director at the school from about 8:00 to 3:30, then drove to the County Crisis Center where she dealt with poverty and homelessness and drug abuse and mental disorders from 4:00 to 11:00. Unless she was called out of the center to accompany the police on a call, in which case she could get home at midnight or 1:00. She had a rabbit and three cats and, because she loves to garden, a plethora of plants in and out of the house. 

Even now she commutes 2-1/2 hours each way once per week to take care of clients in two states. Some of this she attributes to her ADHD restlessness, and I can see that, but I think it’s also true that her early childhood experience taught her that if you were not being useful, you were not worth recognition - to the point where work for her is an existential requirement; without it, you don’t exist.

Still, there are times when she clearly suffers from caregiver’s burnout. At those times, she says, “I’m so done! I don’t want to have to do anything more for my kids, I don’t want to have to take care of any more animals. I’m tired of my clients! I don’t even want any plants in the house because I don’t want to have to water them!” I try to be a good husband at those times and take care of her, but it’s hard to know what to do. Mostly I just give her my attention.

But I know what she means, and I think I may be going through a bit of that myself. With the kids gone, I feel an overwhelming desire to do nothing. To stop having to work, to stop filling my days with the ceaseless list of tasks to be done and crossed off, only to have two dozen more replace them. I don’t want to mow the lawn or clean the bathroom, and I definitely don’t want to have to feed anyone - even myself. 

All of which is my partial explanation for last night.

The cats. Two needy little shits if I ever saw them. Well, the one is not so bad. Guennivere. She mostly lies on the back of an overstuffed chair all day and grows rotund. She has two desires: to be pet and to be fed, and she calls for them with small mews and large, staring eyes respectively. 

Merlin, the older one - we think he’s maybe 15 - is where the trouble lies. To be fair, he’s got more personality than a lot of people I know. He trills in a variety of cadences, often in response to my own mimicking of him. He’s very territorial, and defends our house with a vengeance from a younger, bigger orange tabby and a black and white feral that lives in the sewer up the street a ways. The problem is, he has hyper-thyroidsim, which leaves him hungry all the time.

This has been compounded as of late by his insistence on being fed wet food. Janette thinks the dry food hurts his teeth, which are probably getting sensitive in his old age. I think there’s truth to that, and I also think he’s a strong-willed, OCD bully of a cat who will wear you down when he wants something. Most of the time I’m okay with this, if a little annoyed, and I get up to let him out, then back in, then back out, then back in as he scratches at the doors to let us know his wants and needs. But lately, all he has wanted is more and more wet food.

We’re treating his condition of course, with swabs of medicine in his ears twice a day, but it’s a losing battle, I think. So I try to feed them at a certain time each day, but he basically hounds me whenever I am in the house. More and more.

Last night he was at it again. I was settled on the couch with a glass of wine and about 100 pages to go in Winslow’s 720 page novel - which is to say, I was very happy in my introversion - when he starts in. Pawing at me. Clawing at me. Finally jumping up on the table, which he definitely is not supposed to do, and when I went to push him back to the floor, I knocked over my wine glass, shattering it and sending red wine everywhere. 

This is not, of course, the cat’s fault, but it sure feels that way to me. I clap my hands really loudly to let him know my displeasure, but he couldn't care less, and when I walk toward the kitchen to get some paper towels and a sponge, he walks in front of my feet and starts yowling for food. So I yell at him.

“SHUT UP!!!!!”

Yowl.

“SHUT!!!!! UP!!!!!!!”

Yowl!.

I toss him out the back door.

This, I think, is not how I want to be feeling. And quite frankly, I’m not sure I understand why. Clearly the cat is suffering, and is hungry all the time. Why not just feed it? Why am I screaming at an eight pound animal that is nearing the end of its life? I think, I meditate every single day; I started a month-long vacation today, I have the house to myself; I should be RELAXED for Christ’s sake. Why am I so tense?

I start to clean up the mess, the wine covering my phone, the table, the floor, glass everywhere. And just as I am putting the last wad of paper towel into the trash, I hear him banging on the front door, howling to be let in. 

Which I do. And I feed him. And pet him. And tell him I’m sorry, and I go back to my book, but I’m shaken and I’m glad it’s so hot out and everyone has their doors and windows shut and the air conditioner compressors are going full blast because maybe none of the neighbors heard me absolutely lose my shit. Maybe I need more exercise, I think. Or a healthier diet. 

When I do go to bed I open the windows for fresh air, as I always do, and listen to the cicadas, and I toss and turn and eventually fall into some strange dreams and am woken in the morning by Merlin’s howls. But this morning, I don’t mind. I blame Trump for all of it. 

Which sounds ridiculous, I know, and can easily be written off as the liberal version of “Thanks, Obama!” When Bill Clinton was President and uttered his famous, “That depends on what your definition of is, is” statement in defense of his actions, I remarked to a fellow staff member that our jobs - educating high school students - had just been made a lot more difficult by that man. I was teaching in a Quaker school at the time, and we all tried very hard to create an atmosphere of respect for the Truth. Not as in not lying, but as in accepting a reality that did not always match our preferences or our image of ourselves. Easy example: climate change. We can accept it as true and change our behaviors, or we can prioritize our image of ourselves as faultless and deny what we see in front of us. It can, of course, get much more difficult than that.

At any rate, if Clinton threw a bucket of water into our tidy little Quaker boat, then Trump and his supporters are a tidal wave of Untruth. And it is stressing people out - maybe especially here in the DC area where everything is politics, all of the time. I do know I feel this: I feel the anxiety of having our President lie so completely and with such impunity, of having children thrown into cages at the border, of having watched the Kavanaugh hearings, of witnessing the hyper-hypocrisy of Mitch McConnell. And what is so stressful, of course, is that I don’t know what to do. 

I can vote in an already heavily Democratic area: I can write and leave unanswered calls to my representatives, I can send money into the void of so many causes, I can post my outrage on Facebook - none of which helps and none of which makes me feel any better. So I yell at my cat because he’s perpetually hungry and feel shame for doing so.

What it takes, I realize this morning, in the calm and clear of the silence of this brief solitude, is a long-haul, steadfast belief in the power of goodness. When I used to drop my kids off at school, every day I would tell them, “Be a force for good in the world!” This was not easy advice for a kid going into a middle school environment, where probably the best they could hope for was to escape at 2:45 without trauma. But now that advice echoes back, and I conclude that the best fight I can take on is to combat my own caregiver’s burnout, that fatigue I feel in the face of it all, and be kind. To the cat, to strangers, to my wife and to my children, to myself. It all sounds so trite and simplistic. It is not. 
