---
layout: post
title: Adult Stuff
---
Part of an email I received from Max just now:
> As for my birthday, the thing I would appreciate most is just love and encouragement, and a tale from when you were a 21 year old :) 
> Also either your favorite book of all time,
> Or a book that you think I should read right now! in this part of my life

I had written to him earlier:
> You have a big birthday coming up! What can I offer you?

The big birthday is his 21st which is less a big deal than it used to be, I think.  It makes him legal to drink, though I don’t think that’s much of an issue for kids 19-20, unless it’s in a restaurant. I suppose he’s legally able to go into a casino now as well, both of which strike me as really poor attributes to officially convey on someone when they turn into an adult. What other rites and ceremonies do we have to acknowledge our children turning into adults? The biggest, it seems to me, is high school graduation, and with it the end of compulsory education. It happens to coincide with turning 18 for most people, which is the age of legal majority. Add all these things up, they say: 
> 1. You no longer have to educate yourself
> 2. You no longer have to listen to your elders and parents
> 3. You can go out and get wasted on alcohol and, in some states, marijuana
> 4. You can gamble
> 5. Welcome to adulthood!

I don’t know - there seems to be a distinct lack of positive messages there.

Early adulthood is, as the Amish put it, a time for rumspringa though I believe they let their kids loose at an earlier age, like 15 or 16. Time to see just how far you can push certain things, to experience vomiting up whiskey or fear of pregnancy or spending a night or two in jail. I’m not suggesting those are healthy things, and sometimes that vomiting becomes a habit, or the fear turns real or the nights turn into months or years. But if you have been brought up in privilege - which is to say, you have had access to decent food, shelter and education, with some opportunities for self-expression (and why is this level of experience considered privilege? Do we not have the capacity to make this the baseline, world-wide?) - then you probably will make some impulsive decisions as a new adult which will feel exciting and as though you are exercising your long-awaited personal freedom. And some of that will be good. Maybe you move into your own  apartment (shared) or can spend money on things you want. You’ll also have to spend money on things you need. I remember the first time I bought an ironing board, and thought, a) why do I have to spend money on this kind of thing? And b) how long is it going to take me to amass all the things I just took for granted around my parent’s house: washing machine and dryer, pots and pans, sheets and linens, curtains on the windows, tools, a cupboard full of spices? Everything, at the time, was a substantial percentage of my paycheck and I could not foresee the day - today! - when I was beyond ready to start getting rid of those very same things. 

But you can’t tell people that. In my 25 years of teaching, I’ve actually learned that you can’t teach anyone anything, in the sense of a transitive verb. You can point things out things they might want to learn, can offer advice and instruction and a conducive environment, but ultimately the active part falls to each of us to learn.

When I was married to my first wife and living in San Francisco, we had a little one bedroom apartment on Pine street, just below Nob Hill. We started putting furniture in, and since we didn’t have any money, we rented to own through a company called Cort. It ended up costing us much more than it would have otherwise, but we really wanted furniture.

My wife’s boss was a man named Clem McCarthy, who worked in advertising. He came up with “The Ultimate Driving Machine,” and, “The Antidote for Civilization,”  eight words which had earned him a house in Sausalito, a convertible Fiat sports car and a much younger girlfriend. He told us, from his vantage point of twenty years and a pretty nasty divorce of extra wisdom, not to accumulate stuff. Did we listen? No. Was he right? Kind of. Maybe even mostly, as that furniture is long gone, some of it probably lost to me via my first divorce - one that was not, by the way, nasty at all. But still, it’s nice to have a bed to sleep in, and a chair to sit it.

But my middle son, the one about to turn 21, maybe he is smarter than that. He has been living out of his car for about the last two to two and a half years. His mom died in November of his first year at UCLA; he left the dorm and came home for the summer, then spent a year traveling back and forth across the country and into Canada, sleeping in the back of his mom’s Volkswagen diesel station wagon. When he returned to school for his second year, he decided to continue to live out of the car which, from what I understand, he parks (and sleeps in) the same school parking garage each night, under the benevolent watch of the security guard.

As a parent, I find this rather upsetting. I want him to be in an apartment with a kitchen and a bath and a bed, a place I know has lockable doors and where he is safe and reachable by UPS. As a fellow traveler on earth, I admire his will and resourcefulness to pull it off. I’m scared for him of course, because all parents, I assume, harbor a low-level anxiety that something terrible will happen to one or more of their children. What I am not scared of at all is the thought that he may avoid the accumulation of stuff that I’ve had, at best, a very mixed relationship with. Put in a more positive way, I hope all three of my kids - all six - include in their lives the material things that are necessary and in such a way as to cherish what they have and minimize the rest. That’s a part of being an adult in our uber-capitalist society that I - looking around - have apparently been unable to master. 
