---
layout: post
title:  Forward and Back
---
Today was our annual portrait session at Wider Circle, a local place that offers furniture and all kinds of services to people who could otherwise not afford them. So Dave and the Silver Spring Camera Club, of which I am not a member, gets together and offers portrait services for those who would want them. A lot of the clients come in with their kids, and what they get is a professionally done, printed and matted 8x10 photo. It’s nice, though it challenges my introversion in ways I cannot describe.

So today I opted not to shoot but to process the files others had created. It was very slow this year, maybe a total of eight or nine clients whereas we usually will get near twenty, so I spent a lot more time talking with the other photographers. For reasons I am blind to, I felt more open to them, and really enjoyed hearing them talk about what they like to shoot, and why. One guy, Mike, had a collection of photos he had taken at antique shops, all of them of dolls or mannequins. He’d made up an entire story with a sequence of images, and apparently had written a story about the first image, of a woman I’d guess circa 19th century, whom he called “Ann Tique.” Not sure of the spelling. Not anything I would ever be interested in doing myself, but interesting nonetheless. True or not, it felt like a new combination to me.

Janette got home around 6:30 and we drove out to Rockville for dinner. She spoke at length about how exhausted she is, and I refrained from saying “that makes two of us,” but it does, and then we came back and had a glass of wine and were in bed by 10:00. But apparently she took to heart an email I had sent her with advice for getting older. Part of what it said was to treat yourself well, that the time for saving money was over, and now is the time for spending it. (Not quite there yet, but soon?) Also, remember to get out of the house now and again, that kind of thing.  Anyway, rather than catering to our tiredness and staying in, as we do all too often, we went out, and she dressed up for it. She came in with a bit of makeup on and wearing Chanel No. 5 and so I threw on a scarf, which is how I dress up and look fancy, and we went out and we had some fun. And I noticed how much I enjoyed being in her company. Though when I told her my plans for the upcoming year, things got a little rocky.

It’s not that she objects to my plans, it’s more that she believes I continually undersell myself and that the salary I was planning on asking for next year was much too low. It might be, but I like the school and want to see it succeed and don’t want to take advantage of it just because I’m in a position to do so. But I accept that she’s right - I do undersell myself - but it left me in a slightly sour mood because now I have to either go in and demand that salary or explain to her why I did not. 

I’m a grown man though, so I should be able to handle it in a way I feel comfortable with. 

Shouldn’t I?
