---
layout: post
title: Worrying
---
Max turns 21 today. Eli turns 18 in just about two weeks, on the 50th anniversary of the first moon landing. It’s a big month.

In four days Max will leave with a friend for Hawaii. Meanwhile, he is trying to get his visa to go to China with the rest of us. Then, when Eli and I return to the States, Sam and Max are going to India, and then Nepal for a Vipassana meditation retreat. Sam, I believe, is then returning to China while Max travels back to LA in time to start his third year at UCLA.

On the one hand I am happy for them in that they get to do all this traveling and I’m very supportive of it. On the other, I think my own white-privilege guilt kicks in, and I hope they use all these experiences in ways which ultimately better the world, and not just for self-directed reasons.

Truth is, I have very little control one way or the other, which is a fact that every parent must confront. In my case that lack of control is multiplied to a degree by their inheritance from their mom, which has left them with more money than I have after a lifetime of working. I don’t begrudge them that - it certainly has been a relief to me as well (no college tuition worries). I do worry about them becoming lazy, over-entitled trust-fund babies who blow through their inheritance by age 28 and then find themselves in need of a job but unable to get one because they’ve been avoiding it for the past ten years.

But these concerns are based upon, as are most parents’ (I’m guessing - I’ve never done a survey of this, even informally), our imagined worse outcomes for our kids instead of sober assessments of who they are and where they might actually get themselves into trouble. Those worries are more about them being unhappy in relationships or struggling to find meaningful work. I see within each of them, manifested differently, the same searching which has nagged me for most of my adult life. It could be that I am projecting onto my children - I would not be the first! - but I do think it’s real and it is genetic. 

I find a lot of hope in their generation however; a belief that they have healthier attitudes toward material goods and ambition. When they were growing up, I never heard, “I want this,” or “Can I have that?” They were always grateful for whatever they received, never asked for more. And while you could argue that what they received was plenty, that did not stop a lot of other kids, many of whom I taught, from having those entitlements. 

So as their father, I am of a decidedly mixed mind, and when that happens I tend to default to what is rather then what I think should be. In this case, if they don’t want to bust their butts for 60 hours per week making someone else rich, good for them. And if they want to see the money they have inherited as a gift, an opportunity to see the world and learn by pursuing their interests, then I trust it will work out for them. I don’t regret in any way the work I have done in my own life, but neither do I want to impose that kind of life upon them.

When they were younger, I worried about the violence in the video games they played, At one point they said (and I really do think it was all three of them speaking together), yes Dad, we know the games are violent, but we also know they are games and not real life, and we’re not going to go out and start shooting people because of them. So in the same way, I think they realize that while they may not have to scrimp and save, they also know they still have to work, and should work, for work is its own reward, and they are young and are having a good time traveling and seeing the world - much as I did, in my own way, when I was twenty-three. And I hope that by accepting the wisdom they seem to possess at this young age, I am not aiding and abetting their misery at an older one.

There’s really nothing I can do to protect them of course. They’re white, male and well-educated. In the world soon to come, which I will not see, that may be their protection and it may be their handicap, but I believe in any case it will be their souls that thrive.

It would be nice if I could hold on to that thought, even as I worry about each one of them, for every single reason I can conjure up. 
