---
layout: post
title:  Fall
---
I fell yesterday. It was on a set of marble stairs at the Library of Congress. One of those falls that should not have happened, or at least I saw no reason for it other than I guess, my age. And that’s the issue.

Some nameless-to-me group of people within the world of photography had organized a day of world-wide photo walks, wherein small groups of like-minded people gather and take a walk somewhere, shooting photos along the way and then uploading the best of them to a web site for all to see. Dave, my boss at school and a good photographer, organized one for a group of a bout two dozen people, and we met in downtown DC. We started out at Union Station, where I shot (with camera) a bunch of pigeons, and then moved on to the US Capitol, I was having a lot of fun, and dipped into the Library of Congress, one of the few buildings actually open. I climbed up to a third story observatory and looked down into the reading room, made more famous than it was by the film, All the President's Men. I found resonance to be looking at that room while the President was being impeached.

As I walked down from my lofty moral height, I noticed an area off to my right that I wanted to check out and the next thing I knew the stair was coming very quickly at my face, and my camera was bouncing off the marble steps. I felt the impact on my left hand and right knee, and when I picked myself up, I was greeted by a sweet young woman who offered me an ice pack. 

I reassured her that I was okay, but an ice pack struck me as what you would offer a person who was old. I was fine; a fall such as that really doesn’t hurt. And it didn’t, but there it is: I fell. Next up, I thought, is when I fall and break my hip, and we all know what comes after that: the fall from grace, the push from Eden, the slow deterioration of memory and cognizance and the woven tapestry, constructed over so many years, of the story of our identity. Without memory, we lose that which we call the self.

Some Buddhists – and I suppose others – set this as a goal. They carry beads which they pass through their fingers like emeralds, repeating a mantra whenever the monologue of thought strikes up inside the mind. It takes outsized courage to abandon ego in favor of experience – it’s the annihilation of the self, suicide without the turning in of the corpse. It is to stand up and leap from the safety and comfort of a well-worn couch, with its occasional, painful stab in the backside from its worn springs, into the suffocating and dizzying freedom or a freefall, with no straps, no net, and no clue as to when, or if, you might bit bottom. 

When my dad died, he spent many weeks in a coma beforehand. He’d gotten there by way of bypass surgery, and no one was really sure what happened as he tried to recover from what, at that point, was deemed fairly routine surgery. He lay in white sheets, his face and hands recognizable, ruddy and warm and framed in gray. His blue eyes remained hidden behind their lids though, and the monotonous breath escaping his lips gave no hint of what he might say, if he could. We sat and watched his inert body rise and fall, and wondered where he was.

His final words to me, on the phone, had been, “I have to go,” and when I spoke of him at his funeral, I could not keep back my sobbing. At that point I had a lifetime’s unspoken longing for him, and now he had fallen out of reach, not in one clean step but in stages which, as I realized then, had started with some small slip long, long before either of us had been born. 
