---
layout: post
title:  CEN
---
Sam and Peifen get here later today. The weather is quite cold with a mix of snow and rain and freezing rain, so of course the schools are closed. Seems like a very low bar when the roads are still clear, but I’m not complaining; I can use a day to get caught up on things. My anxiety over getting this house ready to sell is ridiculous. On the other hand, so much maintenance on this place has been neglected while we were busy fixing up other places, so it looks pretty sad. I guess twenty years and six kids will do that to a house - not to mention, their parents.

When things I am responsible for are not right, I feel a horrible, lonely hollowness. I am a classic case of Childhood Emotional Neglect, ticking off symptom one by one. It’s cringe-making to identify with these kinds of pop psychology syndromes, which are, after all, just part of how we humans operate, but it’s also good to know what is happening and not put too much stock in it.

Still, even when I KNOW what is happening, and that it’s not related to the perceived cause, it can take an awful lot of energy to work through it. That’s what I have been doing the past 2-3 days: trying to overlook what my brain is telling me - that I am worthless and an utter failure, that things are so overwhelming and my pitiful efforts just serve to make them worse - and get back onto what feels like a normal track. And to do so before my kids get here.

Their arrivals (Max tomorrow, Eli two days later) help of course. It’s helpful that I like them as people. I find them funny and enjoy being in their company. But I also worry, to a degree that is difficult to put into any sense of proportion, that I have passed this on to them. 
