---
layout: post
title:  Ghosts
---
Today is my mother’s birthday. She would have been 96. Hard to believe she died only about thirteen months ago. We buried her in a veteran’s cemetery, next to my father, in a ceremony simple and moving. 

So much of our identity is passed down to us: our ethnicity, our genes, our circumstances, be they socio-economic or of place. How much control we have over who we are was the subject of last night’s dinner conversation, and I see each of my kids as having very strong personalities, which means, in this context, they are making strong efforts to exert control over who they are. Yesterday, Eli joined us wearing a long navy skirt, neon green socks, a hand painted t-shirt sporting cherry blossoms and birds, a woman’s straw hat decorated with flowers, green sleeves covering his arms with the word “Superior” on each and, of course, obsidian glasses. I don’t think he’s gay; I think he just enjoys the comfort of women’s clothes, and to some extent, the way his dressing sets him apart from the crowd. The locals clearly don’t know what to think and so don’t pay him much attention; he’s just too much of an anomaly to register.  

We’ve booked our train rides to Kunming and a hotel for Saturday and Sunday nights. From there we are hoping to go up to the Leaping Tiger Gorge area. That will take us to the 7th or 8th and then it’s just two weeks until we fly back home - I keep thinking we have all kinds of time, but that gets swallowed up pretty quickly by the vastness of this country and the logistics of travel. If we had three more months, I think we would maybe begin to scratch the surface of what this country is, and even then I recognize the hubris of such a proposition. How then, to make sense of our trip - in terms of “discovering” China? When I traveled through Europe in my twenties, it was easy to reserve things for “when I come back,” but I know I will not return here. This gives an urgency to my wanting to be “present” and “awake,” but I know that expending effort toward those goals is sure to undermine success. The best thing to do is to walk steadily forward, one step at a time, neither rushing nor lagging, and honor everything: the woman who brings me coffee, the stray cat in the alley, the vistas, the heat, my own fatigue, the noise, the two locals, dressed in traditional ethnic clothing playing Simon and Garfunkel’s “Scarborough Fair” on plastic flutes. None of it is any more or less “China,” and I know this is true of my experience of my children, my wife, my work relationships, life, my self, of which there is none and is all.

I’m brought back to my senses by a mother and daughter entering the cafe, speaking German.  I feel a raised welt on my arm and pass my hand over it. It’s oily, and I smell my fingertips which give off the odor of pus. I think I’ll go do some laundry. 

+

Sam and I spend a day being somewhat aimless and lazy, wandering through the town and exploring an alley which takes us behind the stage of the main street. It’s where the locals live; a treeless expanse of concrete apartment blocks, some finished and some seemingly abandoned half-way through the construction process. Entire lots are covered in rubble and a stream running alongside the street we walk on has the distinct color of antifreeze. Scaffolding is made of bamboo, thick electric cables are held with zip ties or not at all, and there is a steady cry from a building which is either a child in misery or a young woman having a very good time. Decidedly not the latter I think, looking around. The people who see us show no surprise or any expression at all, really. I think maybe they are offended by our presence, as though we are violating protocol by seeing what we are not supposed to. 

Yet it really is all around us if we just take the time to see. Back on the main strip, while there are plenty of displays of chic and wealth and youthful beauty, it washes up and downstream around the placeholders of poverty, old men and women, their bare feet flat on the dirty sidewalk, a few vegetables laid out for sale before them. I can’t help thinking that they must long for Mao’s gray world of fifty years ago.

In the evening we see a show staged on the river, the karsts in the background lighted as part of the stage. We can’t understand a word of it, but neither, apparently, can most of the audience as the songs tell the story of the local ethnic people and are sung in dialects. No matter, it’s a spectacular display of choreography and light, including oxen and cormorants, a cast of at least 300 and about a mile of red fabric. I take the occasional photo and try, for a moment, to conjure up my mother’s ghost. She would have liked this show, so much a pageantry of light. I close my eyes and try to sense her presence beside me, but its just not happening. Whatever soul or energy remains of her, it’s with my father. Lights come up on a small platform floating in the harbor, where a woman dances in  flesh-colored leotards. She appears to be naked, and dances with a large crescent moon, it’s light casting her into a silhouette at times. She teases the moon with movements languid and suggestive, and the moon’s light becomes the audience’s collective yearning which she both coaxes and keeps at bay. Some small part of me lets go and I’m happy for my mother, alone with my father now, possibly the one pure thing she’s always wanted. It’s a wish, not a belief, and the dance ends and the audience lets out a collective titter of relief and thanks. The moon fades, and our attention is called by the next tableau, a village of worker-dancers, across the water on the far bank.
