---
layout: post
title: Eli at 18
---
“Dad,” Eli said. “It’s red when I pee.” I smothered the small sense of panic in my gut and put on my casual, reassuring face and voice. “It’s probably just something you ate,” I said. Even at age nine, he could see through that statement. “Drink some water,” I said, “and let’s see what happens when you pee again.”

I remember getting to the doctor’ office, and from there the emergency room at Children’s, and my growing frustration with the nurse who stabbed him and stabbed him but could not find a vein. How do I protect him from so many things? His own worry, the whatever-it-is-that-is-wrong, the sterile hostility of the surroundings. I put my hand on his, stroked the skin where the veins show themselves.

He had a tough start. His mother and I were barely speaking, and while she allowed me into the birthing room, she said not a word to me the entire time. She also granted to me the right to name him - a name we’d already agreed upon anyway - an act of generosity, in her mind I believe, because she'd already decided to divorce me as soon as she delivered him.

He’d been diagnosed with a cleft lip in utero. Zach had been born with a cleft lip as well, and that had led to six months of horror. But within an hour or so they declared that the lip was the only apparent issue, and while he was just fine, she and I were not. We tried, for the sake of this scarred infant, to stay together, but the tension filled the house and dried it out. We crumbled where we should have grown, and drew the shades to cover our unhappiness. She took him to live with her at her father’s house, and I entertained the other two with oven mitts and an uneasy distraction.

As infants do, he slept and grew and soiled his diapers and slept more, and at six months he underwent surgery to repair his lip and then he joined his brothers in the semi-weekly treks back and forth between house and a series of apartments until at age nine, he landed with me in Janette’s house and peed blood in the upstairs toilet and came out to face his unprepared father. Long and short of it: undiagnosed strep virus had gotten into his kidneys.  They required a surgical procedure to keep them from shutting down altogether. 

In the face of this, and of our son’s own terror, Wendy’s attitude toward me shifted. We spoke once more as normal human beings. She looked me in the eye, joked about the kids’ eating habits, carried on conversations with me as though nothing had passed between us, one way or another. I hoped that we could co-parent finally, that maybe Eli and his kidneys had broken some log jam, but as soon as he was out of the hospital, the wall came down and she treated me as a stranger, offering only a cool “Can I help you?” or nothing at all. 

A salt-free diet ensued, and repairs began, and routines, and a long period of healing for him and for me, a time when the four of us adapted to this fractured life, split between Wendys home and mine, between Janette’s family and our own. They travelled from house to house and I from Maryland to Pennsylvania, from being dad to being husband and they from the hidden fractures within their mother’s bungalow, painted blood-red with black trim in the aftermath of our divorce, to the very apparent separation within Janette’s and my split-level, her family and mine, our holidays separate doors always pulled closed. It was a hard number of years.

The family ebbed and flowed: Janettes’s kids came and stayed and left again. Janette travelled up to PA every weekend, and every other I joined her. Hard feelings and coldness crept in and then seeped out again, replaced by a gentle compassion. Eventually, his brother left and then his other brother left and then his mom left him for good in a way that made no sense to any of us. And slowly, in part perhaps because of this tragedy and in part because of simple time passing, the tides shifted and we all came together. We had small times together, then a Christmas with all of us which was warm and storybook. And then for a while it was just Eli and me, and Janette at times, and dinner each night at 6:00 became a highlight of how much he had lost, with no one to disperse the old man’s gaze, no buffering laughter to shoulder the interminable wait between adolescence and adulthood.

Now he too has left, if not with fanfare then with a real and tender appreciation for who he has become, and we are planning this victory lap around China, to celebrate the brute force of surviving first, and the deeper sense of having healed, of having come together, of being intact.

Happy birthday, Eli. Welcome to the wonderful , complicated, messy, painful and gloriously joyous world of adulthood. I’m so very glad you are here. 
