---
layout: post
title: Pre-Flight
---
It’s been five and one-half weeks since I took Eli to the airport, and I am about to take an early morning flight from DC to Toronto, then a seventeen hour Air Canada flight to Hong Kong. Sam is already there, and Max will join us a day later. From there we will take a train to Yangshuo in the People’s Republic, where we will meet up with Eli and his friend Raven.

I’ve been looking forward to this trip for about two years now, since I had the idea of it as a celebration: of Eli graduating high school and then turning 18, of Max turning 21, of Sam graduating college. Mostly though, a celebration of our survival, of having lived through their mother’s death and using this trip to pivot toward something more positive. Toward an embrace. 

It’s also impossible, for me, to ignore the political aspect of this trip. This so-called trade war with China, charges of its government using tech firms to spy, the Silk Road initiatives and what it means in terms of China’s influence throughout the world. There seems to be among the people I know at any rate, a generally accepted view of China’s ascendancy and the decline of the US. To me, this parallels the replacing of my generation with that of my children’s, and so I am on this trip with what I hope are open eyes, looking for what is new on both tracks, to see if I can catch a glimpse of a new perspective, and, perhaps, understand it. I will not see my children’s world, the one they will inhabit at my age, but neither can I see their current world, for it is of their own creation. But by going with them to China, I hope to look in at least the same direction as they. I also hope, given that society’s long history and the people’s healthy respect for their past, that my kids can develop a greater appreciation for influences they also cannot see, those things handed down to them from their father, and to him from his and so on. Time to go. 
