---
layout: post
title: Fear
---
#### June 24

It’s a Monday, and the first day of the National Small Schools Conference here in the Philly area. Luckily, they are civilized people and have scheduled the opening speaker for 2:00 pm, so I have an open morning. 

Janette and I drive to a park ten minutes outside of town and plunk a couple of folding chairs into the Brandywine creek and soak our feet and look out at the water and just sit, listening to the birds. I say to her that this is food for the soul, which is something we have not fed in a long time - since we each of us had kids -  and now is the stage of our lives when it is time to nurture our inner lives. Which for each of us, I think, takes different forms, but there is a big overlap in nature. For Janette, soul sustenance comes from water: the seashore, a river’s bank, floating in Michael’s boat on the Chesapeake Bay. I like these things too, but it is within the woods and mountains where I can relax to the degree that I think my priorities begin to get back in shape. I find that kind of deep quiet enables a sense of internal settling, a place I can think and remember what is important. 

But in my so-called normal life, I spend an inordinate amount of time imagining horrible events. Sitting in the chairs, listening to the soft rush of water, I construct a scene in which Janette and I are attacked by random strangers. I am knocked unconscious and horrible things happen to my wife. Why, I think, does my brain do this to me? Traditionally, I have chalked it up to being raised as a Red Sox fan, and the horrible disappointments they visited upon my adolescence and early adulthood. But they’ve won four World Series titles in the past 18 years, so that reasoning doesn’t wash anymore. 

If Janette is 15 minutes late, I can get pretty worked up with an imagined police car pulling up at the curb and the knock on the door, and all that it means. My kids? Forget it. I imagine the horror of their deaths all the time, and while I have accepted this as an inherent feature of me being me, I still wonder why this happens - why, given the least amount of excuse for some anxiety, does my imagination immediately reach for the furthest, worst-possible-case scenario? Of course, some of that is anxiety management. Fearing the worst, the everyday bad becomes quite tolerable. It’s when I have hope that things inevitably go awry.

Additionally, fears are attached to events: a plane crash, a virus, our online identities being stolen and our bank accounts emptied. But contentment is event-less: it’s time passing while letting water drift over our feet and listening to songbirds greet the day. Nothing much happens. So even though we can imagine a hammock on a beach with a soft breeze and a drink with one of those goofy umbrellas in it, there’s no storyline. Catastrophes have narrative arc. 

There are events which we fantasize around happiness - a raise, a new car, etc., but by this age, those fantasies are gone. If I survey my life, even briefly, there’s nothing I really lack, no material thing which will bring my happiness. At this point in fact, the opposite is true: I’m imagining more happiness from getting rid of stuff than I am from acquiring it. Except maybe that one Nikon lens . . .

When the kids are little, you get to see them safely tucked into bed each night. Now my kids are scattered, two of them literally on the other side of the planet, and so I have come to terms with a constant level of worry/concern/anxiety. I work to ensure that these gruesome flights of fancy don’t  drive me crazy but I also need to get regular acknowledgements and tips of the emotional hat via Slack or email or the occasional visit.  

The underlying fear of course is not difficult to see - it’s that I might lose the people who are important to me. The closer they are, the more i want to ensure their safety, and of course I can’t, so I deal with those opposing forces but imagining the worst. As coping mechanisms go, it’s got a lot to be desired. 
