---
layout: post
title: Wendy's Birthday
---
Her face was round, with sharp and innocent eyes, but with a tight mouth that denied any innocence at all, but rather held in a flurry of fears and reprimands. She liked to smoke and drink, in that order, and to play pool, which is how we spent our time together at first. I asked her, sitting on our bar stools, if there was such a thing as a pure experience, wherein we held only a single emotion.

“I don’t feel guilty,” she said, “for beating you at pool. If that’s what you’re asking.”

“No, I mean for longer than a fleeting moment.”

“I’ll enjoy this forever,” she said, and tapped her cigarette into the ashtray. Then she laughed and her shoulders rode up high and her entire upper body rippled like a pond reflection, while her legs and hips remained motionless. She had thick chestnut hair.

We lived together for a short time in a flat on Ashbury Street, just a half block down from Haight, and suffered the legacy of the neighborhood by staying in together, playing chess and sipping single malt whiskies. We struggled with capitalism and made tentative forays into the wilderness, where we regarded one another with tenderness and trepidation. Friends were few; we preferred one another’s company. That is until we reached into one another’s pasts, and then we didn’t and we sought out others who would not challenge us. For me it was another woman, sexually delightful and otherwise unaccommodating. For her it was oxycodone and alcohol. 

There’s no doubt in my mind that it was an accident. She loved our children and would have wanted to see them age, to mark the usual rites of adulthood with possible graduations, marriages, births, jobs, disappointments: the detritus of life’s waypoints parents take comfort in. There was no note, no planning for the aftermath. The house, when I walked through it, had no sense of preparation for anything but the next day when she would do the dishes in the sink and perhaps answer that email. A load of laundry, doughnut shaped and damp, sat in the washer. A few days later the furnace died, and I called for repair and the tech showed up and we spoke, he doing his job and me standing about, trying to discern answers to questions I had long ago given up on.  

She drank heavily even when I first met her, and talked in strands about her mother who committed suidice when she was just a child. He mom went into the family garage and sat in the family car and blew her brains out with what I suppose was the family pistol. It gave the family a new secret which was held holy; never to be looked at directly, never to be questioned or spoken of. It weighed on her more heavily than any religion, and her conviction was affirmed when she, just 19, struck and killed a pedestrian in the fog and rain. This event was folded into the canon, another chapter of empty pages on which nothing could be written, nor spoken of. Two deaths of people relatively unknown to her, yet intimately connected, tragedies to be held deep and unexamined. Alcohol became this faith’s holy wine, and cigarette smoke the incense, used in the daily rituals honoring spirits unseen.

I played along, comfortable to a point. As things came apart between us, including the miscarriage of a little girl, our individual comfort with keeping our pains unspoken did nothing to bring us together, and the refusal to admit to problems lasted long after we accepted the inevitable divorce. Long after, even, her use of alcohol took a turn toward the holy secretive, drinks hidden in water bottles and coffee mugs and masked by the early hours of her use. When, in a rare phone call, I suggested she might have a problem, she hung up. It was one of our last direct conversations. 

After I called my kids, the next call was to her only brother, Scott. He kept asking if she was really, truly gone. At her memorial service, he was ashen. Their father had died about a year previously. He was the last of their immediate family, and the weight of three empty places left him pale and mute. The corners of his mouth turned down as surely as though someone were tugging at them and his eyes were impenetrable. 

When the police had found her, the body had been taken to the coroner and then, according to her wishes, had been cremated. No one saw her. The ashes were sent to my house, where I put them in my closet until the kids could decide what to do with them. As of today, they are still there. She died three years ago this coming November, at age 50. Eli was just 15. 

I light a candle in her memory, take a picture of it and share it with the kids on Slack. 
