---
layout: post
title: Home Alone
---
There’s a Calvin and Hobbes cartoon in which Calvin talks about how he loves to get up early on Saturday mornings and eat three bowls of Chocolate Covered Sugar Bombs while watching violent cartoons all morning, which has resulted in him having no brothers or sisters so far. I feel like I often do an adult version of that, drinking 3 cups of strong, black coffee while reading the New York Times, Facebook and Reddit. Then I walk around the house thinking about the long list of chores I need to get done and how I don’t have the presence of mind to do any of them. Except maybe make some more coffee.

Yesterday Janette and I took our usual walk around the neighborhood, two miles of opportunity for us to talk and re-connect, an exercise that has served us well over the years. During bad times, when there’s been so much tension between us that we can’t speak, one of us will suggest a walk and at the end, things may not be perfect but they’ve always improved. That has not been necessary for a while - in fact, Janette stated that our last fight was December 31, 2017 (she seemed very sure of that, so I defer) - and lately these walks have served a more positive purpose, which has been to not just salvage the relationship but to deepen it. 

She asked me, in essence, what has happened to me wherein she finds me so much more agreeable as of late. I had no idea how to answer that: it seems like something I’ve been working on for a long time, a combination of improving one’s self-acceptance, self-love, tolerance of things one cannot control, acceptance that there are more than one honest and truthful way to see things. But she seemed pretty sure it had been over the last couple of months, so accepting that from her point of view this was true, the only difference I could point to is that during that time, I have had much more time to myself. I don’t know if that caught her short or what, but there was a long silence after that.

It is true though. I’ve noticed that I am very happy living alone these days. And then much happier when I go out and spend time with people, I think I need about a 3:1 ratio, and then everything works. Not sure how this is going to play out in a couple of weeks when I will be spending all of my time in very close quarters with my kids as we travel through China, but I’m thinking this is a once in a lifetime event, and after all, they’re my kids, not people.

I do remember a time when I would chew at the bit for time alone and then, when I would get it, would feel depressed. It’s that realization that makes me feel sorry for all my exes, as that is not a description of anyone who would be easy to live with. As a dedicated introvert, I needed time to myself to replenish, but was fundamentally uneasy with being with myself. Left to myself for any length of time and I would fall into some pretty OCD-type behaviors, making sure the coffee table aligned with the edges of the carpet and the stack of magazines with the edge of the table. Picking tiny little pieces of paper out of the crack where the baseboard met the floor. Polishing door hinges.

These days, with the kids gone and Janette up in PA five nights a week, I’ve pushed the coffee table to one side of the room, overloaded as it is with books and magazines I firmly intend on reading. (An aside - I tend to read simultaneously instead of linearly, a habit I picked up from my father, who explained to me that it was no different from studying several subjects at once at school. Currently, it’s The Border by Don Winslow, Sixty by Ian Brown, Annabelle Lee, by Chris Conlon, a couple of guide books to China, three issues of The New Yorker I’m determined to read and not just look at the comics therein, a National Geographic on China, the latest issue of Aperture which just came in and is filled with photographs I will definitely need some time to appreciate and, just to round things off, The Distracted Mind: Ancient Brains in a High-Tech World by Adam Gazzaley and Larry Rosen.) With the table out of the way, I can use the area for stretching, but there’s a bucket of tools spread out all over the floor that I need to pick through and have been sitting there for two days. Being comfortable with one’s self, at least in my case, seems to imply a certain relaxed attitude toward housekeeping.

Then, perhaps because I’m coming down from the high of the four cups of coffee, my mind begins to wonder if I had any right to ever become a parent. If I do in fact need three to four days a week to myself in order to be happy spending the rest around people - how did I ever think I could be a responsible parent? Things did work out in a way, in that for the bulk of my parenting life I had the kids only half the time and could spend the other half either by myself or alone with a significant other. Aside from work, which is a constant onslaught of people. I don’t know how well I would have fared going from that daily work to a home full of people who also needed my attention, day after day, without a break, for years. Inevitably, I suppose, the divorce would have come, as I sought at least emotional isolation if I could not have had it physically. 

On the other hand, perhaps this is my mind revising my memories to fit my current emotional state, which is one of exhaling after 24 years of parenting. It is my experience that no matter how much closet space you have in a living space, it all gets filled. Likewise, people generally rise to the occasion, and had Wendy and I been better able to communicate what was going on within each of us individually, and made that commitment to making the marriage work, then it would have and I would have found contentment in the situation described. I heard a woman recently describe the secret to a long marriage as being not to get divorced, and I’d have to say it was that kind of thinking, maybe even wisdom, that has saved my current marriage. (Apparently, some 75% of third marriages end in divorce.) But in weighing both sides of this argument - that I was incapable of really being a full time father versus that’s just how it worked out and I’m just enjoying some respite from it all now, I figure that, as almost always, the truth probably lies somewhere in the middle, and since my depression started in adolescence, it’s coincidental that it seems to have lifted around the end of my parenting responsibilities. That doesn’t stop me from feeling guilty as hell about it though.

I walk outside and look up and down my suburban street, with the split-level ranch houses and big blue recycling bins repeating themselves down the gentle curve of the road, and I think about the men inside each of those homes. One per, more or less. There are a lot of memes and tropes and cliches about how women talk and men don’t, about how emotionally isolated we tend to be, and how we are all fine with that. My three sons don’t seem to be like that. I remember telling the oldest that he could come to me with anything and his immediate question was, “What’s a wet dream?” Generally, I think the generations coming up behind us are much more psychologically healthy, and I like to think we can learn from them, but looking up and down my street, I wasn’t so sure. I think we’re going to have to fight for it. 
