---
layout: post
title:  Tolls
---
I like to smell my wife’s armpits. She reacted with mock horror at first, rolling into a cocoon shape and giggling, arms tight at her sides. Lately she’s given in to what she sees as a strange but harmless eccentricity. It’s not as though I do it all the time, but on those occasions when we are being soft with one another, it brings me closer.

The aroma is deeply satisfying to me. It reminds me of course of the space between her legs, but more so it is of the smell of the earth, of dampness and life found in the corners. It can be dry or green, and often woody, like vines reaching outward and releasing their gaseous molecules to ride the winds. It’s an odor not of search, but of having found, and stayed, with deep roots that are dirty and strong.

All this came to mind walking through the shade of Douglas firs and the smell of their mulch as we walked through a small park on the Oregon coastline. Janette and I were there after having dropped Eli off at Lewis and Clark College in Portland. One week after his and my return from China, the three of us flew out there and got him settled into his first-year college dorm room. Then she and I took a few days to visit the wine country just south and on our drive back, stopped for a short hike. I could see Pacific blue through the trees just ahead, a seemingly untouched coastline several hundred feet below us. Why, I asked myself, have I been living in Maryland for so long when this place exists? It hit me that maybe I’d made a colossal blunder with my life.

We returned to Portland briefly to see Eli off one last time before we headed back to Maryland, work, and some semblance of routine. When I left for college, my departure also left my parents with an empty house, and I can recall the two of them standing on the porch, my mother crying. I had no idea why she might be doing so. The air in the house had been thick with tension for so long, I figured we all would be sighing in relief. They had offered to drive me down to DC, which was the last thing I - and I presumed, they - had wanted. Seven months earlier the three of us had driven from Rhode Island to Miami, and even a shortened version of that ride felt like a nightmare. 

“Are you sure?” my dad asked.

Yes, I was sure. He gave me a pocketful of change for the road tolls.

It had been a nice, if emotionless gesture on his part, and I felt I had even less than that for Eli. Janette and I stood in the parking lot of his dorm, an all-too common and desolate location for many of life’s rituals – and I said, with what I hoped was optimism in my voice, that we would see him in December, just three and a half months away. 

“That long?” he replied. I could see the unhappy realization on his face, and it took me to the Waldorf school, where I as dropping off a four-year old child. The child – I believe it was Max - was crying; I was on the edge of tears, and the teacher stood motionless in her long, natural-fiber skirt, paralyzed in the desperate nether lands between parent, child and job. Finally, one of the other teachers, in the role of administrator that day, told me to just leave. “The child is fine once they can no longer see you,” and despite a foreboding sense of metaphor, I followed her cue. I found later, in my own role dealing with high school students, that this had been wise advice.

So I left him there, my newly minted adult, to learn on his own the loneliness of the early days of college and dorm life, and flew back to the humidity and parking-lot existence of suburban Maryland. It was time to re-orient toward the Big Move up to PA.
