---
layout: post
title:  The Future has Been Canceled
---
I’m sitting on the living room couch doing paperwork, getting organized, getting some laundry done. It’s Sunday afternoon and football is on the tv. I don’t really watch the games, I just like having the sound on in the background. It provides a comforting kind of white noise while I putter about, organizing things into piles so I can forget about them for a little while. We are planning on having the kids here for a while: Sam is flying in with Peifen on December 16; Max the next day and Eli two days after that. Max and Pefien will be here for three weeks, Eli a month and a day and I have no idea how long Sam will stay; he’s not bought his return ticket yet. After the new year though, I’ll get them to help me move a truck filled with furniture up to the townhouse and then this house will be mostly emptied. I am of course looking forward to seeing them all here. It’s the last time here, last time for Christmas, the last time we can fit all eleven of us in one place.

+

A colleague just sent me a link to an article describing Cancel Culture and why it is so toxic. I read it, despite it being full of grammatical errors and incoherent sentences, which I admit to being a prick about. And at the end of it all, I thought, well, yeah, and Al Franken is still not a senator, while Trump  . . .  

Cancel culture is, it seems to me, about shaming, and it can come from any perspective: Louis CK and Colin Kaepernick and Chick-Fil-A have all been targets. Cancel Culture is the opposite of compassion, and while I like to think I’m in the other camp, my compassion has limits. Would I forgive Stephen Miller if he sincerely apologized and repented his ways? Might take a while. Like decades while. And even then, would I want him anywhere near a position of power? Absolutely not.

I know each generation has its own perspective and issues to deal with, though I wonder if each one, when it get to the age I am now, thinks to itself, “Yeah, but this is different.” Cancel culture does not seem all that different from what young people have been doing to one another for centuries (and old people for that matter) but climate change does. So do gene editing, actual, real-life mind reading, weaponized drones, robotic sex workers, Mars colonization and the utter devastation of other species and our natural resources. I know my kids are smarter than me; I just need to trust they are smart enough.
