---
layout: post
title: Guidance
---
#### June 18

Prose came into my office at school today and asked for a reimbursement check. She’s smart and affable and really into Renaissance Faires. She’s currently teaching Latin I and II, Mythology, Comp Lit, Physics and Psychology. Perfect lineup for a St. John’s College grad is what I think.

We chatted a bit, and she told me a story about how she had been driving with her son when she looked out the passenger-side window and saw graffiti on a wall, containing some familiar stick figures. “It was Aiden and me,” her son admitted. “But mostly Aiden.”

“How old is your son?” I asked.

“Ten.”

I laughed too loudly. “He’s ten and he’s already into graffitti? Good luck with that!” 

She managed a wry smile and described her disciplinary plan, but she really had no need to defend herself. I have all kinds of empathy, even though I showed exactly zero.

Right after we moved into the house on Second Avenue, we bought the kids a guinea pig. It was just Sam and Max then, so they were probably around 3-1/2 and 1-1/2. We named the creature Alex, which was a runner-up name for Sam, and acquired all the necessary accessories, such as a cage. Which Alex promptly escaped, and spent the next two days under the back porch. For some reason I cannot explain, this endeared him to me like a childhood friend.

So when I came home from school one day and found blood in his cage, and saw it was coming from his paws and a bit from his mouth, I was pretty upset. Much more so when I learned that it was the result of Sam and Tim - Margaret and Dave’s child, from across the street - playing catch with Alex. My anger kind of bubbled out and I could see the fear and the wonder in Sam’s eyes as I told him in stern tones - loud tones, unusual for me - that he musn’t ever do that again. I could tell that he had no idea that playing catch with this tiny and warm and fuzzy furball was going to hurt it, but that did not stop me from expressing my anger with him. I said that no one was to take Alex from his cage unless I said so, then stormed down into the basement, probably to rummage through some random tools.

Next night, I learned from their mother, that the following conversation took place between our two children after I had left for work. 

Max: “Sam! Let’s get Alex and play.”

Sam: “No Max, Dad said we couldn’t.”

Brief pause, while Max considers the situation. “Sam,” he reportedly said. “Dad’s not here!”

Some kids just need to push the rules to see how far they will bend. Thing is, you have to parent for that. I’m not sure I ever really embodied that, or was willing to exert the discipline, or just express the right amount of moral indignation necessary to instill in a child the conscience which guides him or her well. I’ve tried, and in ways I feel much more successful at work, where I’m dealing with other people’s children, than with my own. Prose is happy her son wants to get involved with Tae Kwon Do, though she wishes it was a martial art more associated with the kind of personal virtues some of them work to instill. I suggested Boy Scouts, which she was already considering. Mind you, none of my kids got involved with either of those things, and in my and their defense, they turned out okay.

So far.
