---
layout: post
title:  Tables for One
---
I look at WeChat on my phone and follow the conversation between my three kids as Max got in just fine last night. Not quite just fine - he took a bus and had to ask for directions and he was thirsty and tired and Eli could not remember what floor he was on and it all eventually worked out but not without some intervention by Sam. I feel guilty. I feel like a bad dad.

And then a moment later, I don’t. My kids are adults and it worked out just fine and they took care of one another, which they need to do. I figure if something had gone really wrong, they would have woken me up, and that that is as it should be. I’m an elder now. 

I believe I’ll let my beard grow and become cantankerous.

+

Last night after Eli had gone to his room, Sam asked, “What do you think you will take away from this trip, Dad?”  My instincts told me he wanted to have a more earnest conversation than we’ve typically had, but late at night is not my best time for this. I’m not sure when my best time for this actually might be, but I know it’s not late at night.

To be fair to all involved, I’ve obviously been thinking about this, so my thoughts ran to: a bunch of stuff about China, about each of you kids, about myself, about time, about seeing through and beyond things, about travel, which I have not done seriously in a while, about nature and peace and photography and how I use my camera and about patience and empathy and growing old in the world and about the US and what it should be and isn’t, or maybe what it could have been. About your futures and the future of the planet. About what love is and what it is not.

“A lot of things,” I said. “So much.”

There was a long silence after that as, I think, he dealt with his frustration and figured out how to proceed next. Or maybe I’m projecting and he was thinking about something else altogether. Point is, I didn’t ask.

I did say something, eventually, intended to lighten the mood, along the lines of learning to appreciate tap water or toilet paper or something like that. As I said, I’m not good late at night: I become overwhelmed with fatigue and a raw kind of irritation infuses my skin and I retreat into my own thoughts and eventually my own sense of where I am and then sleep, which is a refuge of isolation. 

So here’s one thing I take away from this trip: that while I love my kids dearly and would offer my life for theirs, I wish I could be a better father and while I think I did a better job than my own did, it’s going to be up to them, should they decide to have kids, to continue the improvement arc. I’m doing the best I can and even I can see it’s not enough.

Years of antidepressants and therapy have gotten me so far, but I have been unable to work myself free of the self-doubt and criticism that have constructed the reality of the world in my view. I remain hopeful however, that the glimpses I have from time to time of what life can be outside of that will grow more consistent. Maybe then I can answer Sam’s real question. Maybe then I can ask enough to understand what that is.

+

It is good to see Max again. He tells us pieces of his solo sojourn, and I see in him bits of myself I don’t see in the other two, most notably his love of art. The photos he shows us of where he spent his time makes my heart ache for its beauty and stillness. He’s the only one, I realize, who hasn’t almost died on me. Or at least that I know of; also like me, he has his secrets.

At 10:15 the cleaning lady bursts into our room and Sam is awake. I remain hopeful that we may start our sightseeing before 2:00pm. Eli and I head out to get breakfast and our goal is to bring back vegetarian steamed buns for everyone. We walk into a shop that sells these buns, but have no idea how to ask for vegetarian or how to specify that our order is to go. So we leave and find a pastry shops where we can just point, and then I find a coffee shop that is just coffee and just to go and I get a very nice cappuccino for around $1.50 so we figure we are at least partially successful and back at the hotel everyone enjoys the pastry, which is quite delicious. In fact, I have yet to have a meal here which I have found anything but delicious, and we eat mainly in small, drab-looking places in alleys off of alleys, the same places where I consistently see the best looking produce I have ever seen in my life. I have no idea how they do it, whether it comes from big farms or small local ones, but it all looks so fresh and healthy and bursting with color and vitality. I’m dying for a good salad and some fresh fruit, which we’e been avoiding because it’s reputedly washed with tap water and no one, not even the locals, drinks the tap water here, but I’m dreading going into Safeway and facing the drab, hard, bred-to-ship produce there.

+

By the time everyone is up and we leave and get lunch at a convenience store and get over to the museum, it’s about 1:30. The building is filled with European influences, lots of landscapes, a comet of brazen propaganda regarding Tibet and some fabulous heroic sculptures of Mao and the Long March outside. We duck into a cafe for coffee, then head over to an area called “798,” and the crowd is young and hip and beautiful in that way that young and hip crowds can be. There’s a biker cafe with an American Indian parked in the lot along with a couple of Harley’s which I find surprising. We stroll around; Sam ducks into a Loneliness museum and reports afterwards the saddest thing: a visitor left a note in the guest book, his comment being that he wished the show had been in English. While he’s in there and the other two are climbing a jungle gym, I wander by myself and confront my own loneliness and discomfort in situations like this: by myself, just my camera, alone in a crowd of people and unsure what to do with myself. I take photos, most of them disposable, and grapple with how I have come to be this old and have so few friends. 

I find the climbers and we wander, the three of us, and I get a couple of good shots of each of them, and then we re-connect with Sam on WeChat. We decide to have dinner and walk by a place I would have loved - an outdoor cafe with different kinds of offerings for a mix of vegetarians and carnivores, with good beer and wine and outdoor tables on what is a lovely evening. Instead we take a forty-five minute Didi ride to a shopping mall and go into a vegetarian restaurant, and I’m thinking, Grrrr, the sacrifices we make for our kids. But the food turns out to be fabulous, the best “fake meat” since Hong Kong and it makes us all relaxed and happy and the mood turns just lovely as we reflect on our trip and our time together. Afterwards, we walk twenty minutes past the hotel and get a drink, and the mood stays and we return late, having been kicked out of the bar at midnight, after getting kicked out of the restaurant earlier. 

Oh, and family, I think to tell Sam. I’ve learned that one of the best things you can do in your life is to sit down and eat with your family.
