---
layout: post
title:  The Weight of Lost Things
---
My sister Charlotte visited my mother’s grave yesterday and left flowers, then sent out an email wishing her a Happy Birthday. In the cold light of the morning, my feelings grown confused. Intellectually, I think it is good to honor our ancestors and generally remember those who have passed, but emotionally I am recoiling. I don’t know why this is. Theory one is that it’s pain and I simply don’t want to feel that all over again. Theory two is that I am childishly oppositional to any prompt suggesting I feel a certain way. I’ve noticed this in my responses to Janette’s prompts. She texts, “It looks as though you are having a lot of fun!” I reply, “Well, it’s terribly hot here.” And it works both ways: she asks, “Are you feeling sad about your mom?” I shrug and reply “no.”

I can be oppositional generally, but this seems like something else altogether, like I’m so protective of my inner life that any hint or suggestion must be immediately proven false. Of course, theory three is that I have no clue what it is I am feeling at all, at any time, and anything that is suggested must be refuted before it takes root and I actually do begin to feel something.

When Zach was in the hospital, my dad did not want to come. “I don’t like hospitals,” is what he said to my mother. To her credit, she said, “I don’t care, he’s your grandson and you need to see him and support your son.” By the time he showed up, of course, it did not matter because I could sense his unease with the situation, the sadness of it all, and all his presence brought me was anxiety - of which I already had plenty and with which I was coping in amazingly bad fashion. Maybe it’s genetic I think, and am about to write that off when the scars on Eli’s left arm come to mind. 

+

I awoke this morning feeling very unsettled: I was annoyed with my kids and their eccentricities, tired of traveling after ten days, unclear in my daily meditations and unfocused as to why I was even here in the first place. I sat up and meditated anyway, and felt better. After my usual breakfast with Max, I spent some time folding laundry, which I found soothing. Then Sam and I walked out to the dojo where Max has been going each day, learning Tai Chi, or Taiji as it is said here. (太極) The teacher is a world-renowned master and as I watched him work with his students, that much was clear: his movements were effortless, his balance precise. He never sweat. As I watched him, and his students. - including, of course, Max - I was filled with regret for all the things I have undertaken and then abandoned: painting, drawing, Tai Chi, Tae Keon Do, photography, architecture, French, writing, shepherding, carpentry. Even golf. If I had kept up with any of them, I’d probably be pretty good by now. And that doesn’t even touch on all those abandoned relationships.

Not something I wanted to feel, so I tried to console myself. Perhaps parenting with the thing? One of the students was a woman from Rome, and we compared kid facts: she has two, ages twenty-four and eighteen. She said she was “almost, not quite done.” Her kids had kept her up the previous night, texting her with their crises, and she was there for them. I told her the old joke, that the first forty years of parenting are the hardest. She looked at me with a completely straight face and said, “But that means you are doing it the rest of your entire life.”

Yes, but that’s not the thing I get better at. No matter, I say to myself, you can’t go back, but you can always go forward. Commit to your photography, even if DSLR’s are quickly becoming a thing of the past and still photos will likely be not too far behind. Commit to your writing, even though you have not done so in years. Maybe you could find a tai chi place in West Chester. There’s a Buddhist temple right down the street, maybe you could pick up there. 

Here’s something I need to tell my kids: find one thing and commit to it. But isn’t that what Brother Sheehan told us to do with such fervor in the twelfth grade? He told us we had to commit to Christ though. Did he? Or did he say commit to one thing and preferably, hopefully, it’s the Christ but if not, at least commit to something, and who follows that advice anyway? Haven’t I framed it wrongly - doesn’t the passion pick you? If you must pick, how do you know which? By age twenty-five? Thirty?

It’s easier for me to commit now, I think, because I’ve lost that fear of missing out, a thing so prevalent in youth. No, that’s not true, it’s the fear of dying that forces my hand now, that fear that I will die without knowing something. I have about twenty-five years left, I hope - what I need to commit to, is dying a good death. That’s all.  Then maybe I can get rid of this heavy-ass camera I’ve been lugging around for the past ten days. 
