---
layout: post
title:  The States
---
After an hour-long Didi ride to central Kunming, we explore a temple and a couple of 1500 year old pagodas, sit in a tea house for a while, visit a mushroom market. We eat lunch and dinner in places off alleys off of other alleys, where no other tourists go and people eye us with suspicion and courtesy. My kids interact with the locals more readily than do I, as I, as usual, revert to the safety and comfort of observation. I see fathers playing readily with their children, teens acting tough, sunglasses on after dark and cigarettes dangling from their mouths. Moms and daughters walk arm in arm, children play hide and seek at knee level. I see the same things here in China, I think, as I might anywhere else. Just the fruit is much different 

Max says the kids seem happier here. “It’s the parents,” I say. They have less anxiety around their kids, less constant worry over their safety. From what I can see, parenting is more of a shared responsibility here, in that at least part of what keeps their kids safe, and what helps guide them to adulthood, is the strong presence of common values, an obvious imperative to fit in for the good of the whole. 

News from the States filters into my awareness, and it is filled with mass killings and hatred and people stabbing one another with words. I imagine going through customs and being told, “Welcome back to the United States,” and being not all that happy about it. Which is sad, because I do want to go home in many ways: I miss my wife, and the regular routines of my life. It’s not that I don’t want to be here, traveling, or with my sons. I do. I also miss those other things and look forward to them. But the pain and strife coming from that part of the world is hard on my soul, and I don’t say that glibly or lightly. With the high value we place on individual freedoms, we have lost sight, I think, of the responsibilities we owe one another. In some fundamental ways, it is safer here in the land of Confucius.
