---
layout: post
title:  Mount Emei
---
We climbed part of the mountain today, more steps than I have ever climbed in my life. According to Sam’s Fitbit, 160 stories worth. The kids were kind, waiting for me when I struggled to keep up. 
I had many thoughts, including about how I would like to come back here and hike up this mountain by myself from start to finish beginning in the clamor of the tourist town and slowly leaving it behind as I climbed, staying in monasteries and maybe not even taking a camera but only a notebook, but then I realized I would go through this tough, silent, introspective time and upon reaching the top, would be greeted by busloads of noisy tourists. 

I started the day feeling pretty fed up with China and the noise, which comes not just from people and cars and busses that honk at each other endlessly and without provocation, but from loudspeakers everywhere, as though silence were something to extinguish and only then would the people be safe. The guide book says this is a holy mountain, but if felt like Disneyland with lettered parking lots and tour buses and happy, cheery jingles on the PA. 

But, as it turned out, that was only at the bottom, and as we hiked things fell off pretty quickly and we entered a lush and verdant forest with clear running streams and only the sound of our own voices. We found a monastery where we were given some lunch by happy priests and then had tea. We continued to hike up the trail and found this time a nunnery, where the nuns chanted and we were four of just five people in the entire temple. The chanting was so sublime and peaceful that I approached it by walking slowly up the steps, one riser at a time. I reached the platform and sat on a bench. A whippoorwill began chirping its song, its notes fitting with the chanting so well that I thought it had to be a recording; the bird song and the chanting seemed to glorify one another. 

I thought maybe this inner peace I was feeling came from the monasteries, or maybe it was from a sense of satisfaction I got from a couple of photos I took, and then I realized it was likely because I had only green tea that morning and no coffee. 
