---
layout: post
title:  Faith Healing
---
It’s 9:30 at night. Janette and her kids are gone; mine are in their rooms for an early night. I’m back in the basement after spending the last two nights on an air mattress in my office. It’s quiet.

We have had a wonderful two days. Everyone has been happy and generous and fun, funny and genuine and loving. We ate and played games, took a walk and ended up playing on the playground swings and other equipment (“ages 5 - 12”) and drank and exchanged gifts and ate some more. I told Janette at one point that next year we could rent a house at the beach for a week in order to fit everyone. Angelica heard this and said, “Well, we’ve done that before,” to which Janette replied, “Yeah, but before it was to split up. This would be to be together!” 

Very true. Those first five or six or even seven years were really hard on us, with two families that did not want to mesh at all. And yet here we are now, when Janette introduces her kids, and Max, to someone with “These are my kids!” and Max leans into her, and when Angelica grabs the keys to go run an errand and turns to me and asks, “Do you want to come?” Both these moments are small signals of healing which runs much deeper. I feel I can be at true peace within it. 

+ 

When Eli was about one year old, I went over to the kids’ mom’s house and took them all out to a Mexican restaurant just a few blocks away. That makes Max about four and Sam six. It was a nice fall day and we walked, had a nice lunch and then I had to get them back to their mother.

I carried Eli on my shoulders and so had only one hand free for the other two which, at some point, went to Sam. Free, Max ran ahead and I stifled a warning because I knew he was already smart enough to stop at the corner and wait for us there. He was happy to be running the twenty yards or so and would be safe until the rest of us caught up.

But when I got there, I was berated by an irate young woman who had come, in her mind, to save him. She berated me for letting him be loose, and there was no arguing, for even if I wanted to say something, she was not listening. Had she given me a sliver of an opening to talk, I would have pointed out to her that she was at greater risk leaving her car at he head of the left turn lane and crossing oncoming traffic than he. 

But it did cause some doubt in the pit of my stomach and for a couple of days I tested myself against other parenting I saw. Was I being safe enough with my kids? Dressing them properly, feeding them healthy enough foods, showing them the right children’s books? And after two days, I stopped and re-found my faith in them, an unstated but foundational knowledge that they were smart enough and good enough and enough of shining rays of light that they would be okay. They could, as Henry Miller once described, throw themselves upon the ocean of the world and they would float, like corks.

This faith in them, which I have never questioned since, was there when Sam took off for college on his own, when he did his flying trick across eighty feet of pavement in San Francisco, when he flew to Beijing to live for a year. It was present when Max told me he wanted to live on the streets for a while, and when he lived in his car for two or three years. And it was there when Eli lay in his hospital bed, the doctor telling us they would “do everything they could” and then again later when he, too, decided to go live in China for a few months.

And it’s here with me now
