---
layout: post
title: Pub Chatter
---
Sam and I keep in touch roughly once a week via WeChat. We use its video call function so I have gotten to see and speak with him pretty regularly while he’s been in China. Not this week though; he is in Manila with his girlfriend, Pei Fen, who flew there for her job with the Seattle office of AirBnB. No nationalistic jingoism in this family.

With his blue eyes and dark hair, people in China tell Sam he looks like Tom Cruise, but the scar from his accident points to Harry Potter as well. He’s striking enough that when I have been out with him, say in a restaurant, I’ll sometimes be aware of women looking at him, some with an aggressiveness that makes me want to jump up and tell them to back off. It’s a weird reaction, but generates a lot of empathy from me for all the parents of girls, regardless of their attractiveness. As for Sam, now twenty-three, all I can think is, watch out son, because it’s going to get you into trouble.

Last time he was home he and I went out for a drink together, which has to be a milestone in a parent’s life. We went to an Irish pub just up in Wheaton and chatted over our pints for a while and then he said, “Mom told me you had an affair. Is that true?”

Proving once again that there is no singular experience. 

“Yeah,” I said, “it’s true. And I absolutely don’t recommend it.” What else was I going to say? His mom had told him when she got drunk one evening, and I admired his restraint from asking me for so long. He said that he did not hold it against me or anything. I thought, well, you could if you wanted to and I wouldn’t blame you 

The kids have never complained about our divorce. A friend of mine once told me that every child of divorced parents holds deep the wish that their parents would reconcile, and maybe my kids did at some point in their lives, but they certainly never petitioned me for it. They seemed quite content with having two separate families; they got two Christmases, two birthdays. At the time, I waved that explanation off as rationale, but I suppose for a kid that’s a pretty good deal.

Sam went on to tell me that sometimes he just gets tired of people. Not just his girlfriend, but his friends as well. He searched for words to explain, but settled on the fact that he just grows tired of them and wants to be away from everyone. 

I have to say that I was not thinking all that well. The pub was crowded and noisy, making it somewhat difficult to talk, or to talk easily about subjects which required close listening, so I think I said things along the lines of, “I know what you mean.” Which of course I do; it is awful to need to get away from everyone. It comes with an anger and frustration which you cannot explain, not to them and not to yourself, and so you find some solitude and try to work things out but all you really do is run out of energy and kind of relent. So you get back together with people and you find they’re not so bad, they’re actually fun to be around, so what was that freak out you just had?  

One thing I would tell him now, if he were here in front of me, here where it is quiet: “Try to push through it.” But how would he know, at such a young age, the strength of the emotions of which we are capable when we allow ourselves to be truly vulnerable? I’m sixty-one and am just getting a handle on it.

It doesn’t take a degree in psychology to understand how a marriage can be an arena for working out our basic longings, those we developed as young children, primarily, of course, with our parents. If there was a recurring theme in talking with people after Wendy’s death, it was the frustration so many felt with her absolute refusal to be vulnerable, to give in. I called her once to explain that my furnace was out, and my house was around fifty degrees at 3:00 in the afternoon, and no one could come out until the next day to fix the problem. So probably by morning it would be in the low thirties, and would she mind keeping the kids one more night until it was fixed? “They’ll be fine,” she said, and hung up. An hour later, she dropped them at my house. 

All of which is to say, Sam, we were both taught that love is a thing in the middle distance. Too far, of course, brings all the apparent miseries, but too close can hurt as well. The thing is, from this perspective that time and mistakes and some moments of genuine love have proffered me, I can see that a soft heart is the stronger one, and keeping people close can be our real salvation, if they will have us. And that I really enjoyed our chat, sharing a couple of pints in the pub, with the noise and the chatter and the sense that time wasn’t real at all, just our explanation for how we pass life on, from one to another to another.
