---
layout: post
title: June 17
---

A couple of days ago, on the evening of the day I brought Eli to the airport, I decided to go for a drive and try to shoot some landscapes. Because I could. There was no one in the house, as Janette was not due back from PA until the next morning, and so no one to feed or eat with or coordinate schedules with. Freedom! This is what being an empty-nester is all about!

I got about 15 minutes out and I felt a pain in the upper left of my chest, which shot across and through my shoulder and down into my arm in a funny kind of way. I can be a bit of a hypochondriac anyway, especially now that I am past 60 (and a trait which I have, unfortunately, handed off to Eli, though he has more reality-based reasons for it than I) so of course I thought immediately that I was having a heart attack - though offset by a parallel and equally strong thought that no, of course I was not. Because I could not be, not now. 

The first thread was fueled more by a sense of irony than anything else, I think: that I should have a heart attack now, the day I drop my youngest child at the airport and begin a life post-children, which is to say, one of pursuing my own interests and pleasures. (To an extent anyway. Pleasures are a shifting target these days, and I still have a wife and a job - and my kids. Just because they are far away doesn’t mean I no longer have to parent.) I felt terrible about dying. With both their parents dying just after my kids left the house, they would be afraid to go anywhere. So while I did not want to die for many reasons, heaping guilt on my kids was one of them. I figured they would be okay financially, and all of that - they are smart and were raised to be independent - but emotionally? Maybe, I thought, they would maintain their relationship with Janette, who, as a family therapist, would know how to handle these things. Of course, she’d be dealing with the death of her husband, so who knows how that would play out - maybe she would cut them off as they would remind her of her own pain too much. 

All this in the space of maybe 200 feet at 50 miles per hour, I’d guess. And all this while at the same time, the other track of thought ran that this was no heart attack, I get pains like this all the time, probably just a muscle spasm, I really should stretch more. And life doesn’t work this way, it’s not a scripted thing - at least, not by humans - and what are the chances? Though one of my brothers did have a mild heart attack, right around what, this age? I wonder if I can pull off and call 911?

By the time these parallel voices merged into one, the pain was gone and I’d stopped feeling sweaty, so I shrugged it off and turned on some music. But it did get me thinking about what my kids would do should I not be around - and more so, it reminded me how determined I am to stay in shape and stick around so they don’t have to go through that again any time soon.

And by “that,” of course I mean the loss of their mother. It was just about two-and-a-half years ago. Sam was still at University of Texas; Max was two months into his first semester at UCLA. Fall of 2016, and Wendy became another number in the country’s epidemic of OxyContin overdoses, hers, abetted by alcohol. 

The police knocked on my door about 5:00 am, asked me if I knew her, told me they had found her there, alone in her bed. A friend of hers had called and asked them to check on her, obviously with enough concern that they took him seriously. When they knocked on her door and got no answer, they broke the glass and let themselves in. She was now at the coroner’s.

I’m not sure how I took this in. As I stood in the doorway, speaking to the two officers, it seemed just a bit of information, an extraordinary something I was learning about my ex-wife, the mother of my kids. I remember thinking through a list of people I would need to tell. And I remember thinking that the two officers were doing their own assessment of me, watching my reactions. I think the first words I actually said were, “Holy shit!” as though that makes any sense whatsoever. But at 5:00 in the morning, surprised by the police, told the mother of your children has died, someone you once loved and continued to do so in a particular kind of way - it was all I could do to put one thought in front of another. Finally, after telling me for the sixth time to be sure my door was locked, they left.

Janette of course was fully awake. “Wendy has died,” I said, and her visceral reaction shook the room. Her mother had died when she was thirteen or so, and she knew the immense sorrow that my kids were about to face. But her emotional reaction left me feeling all the more isolated. I could not match her emotions, to comfort her; I was just trying to figure out what I needed to do next.

An hour or so later I woke Eli and told him his mother had died. I wanted some way for him to receive this information without the pain of having to hear it, as though I could open him up and place the knowledge like I would a plate in a cupboard, and it would be there, nestled with the other plates of everything else he already knew. But I had to use words, and I had to know that they would inflict blunt trauma. But which words? Do I say she died? Passed away? Just passed? “Has left us?” I think I settled on “Your mom passed away last night.” As always, the middle ground seemed safest.

He didn’t register much emotion. As with me an hour earlier, he did not know how to take this information in. I sat with him for a while, answered his questions, then did not know what to do. Leave him to his own thoughts? Stay there on the edge of his bed . . . forever? 

“I guess I’m not going to school today.”

“No.”

“That’s all right.”

I stayed a bit longer, then let him be. I struggled with how to leave the room. For some reason I did not want to turn my back toward him, and yet backing out of the room seemed ridiculous. One way or another, I made it to the door, promising to be back shortly.

When it was late enough in Texas, I went outside and called Sam. “Where are you?” I asked.

“Just on my way to class. What’s up?”

I used the same “passed away” phrase I had used with Eli. I heard him say, “What the fuck?” and thought to myself that I had never heard him use that word before. He said it a few more times, then turned around and headed back to his apartment. I could hear his disorientation in his breathing, the pain in the harsh, jarring sounds of the cellphone. His girlfriend was there when he got back, and eventually I let him go, reassured to some extent that she would give him the comfort I could not.

After many attempts and several left messages, I finally got Max on the phone. He was in his dorm room, which he shared with two others. I was driving down Georgia Avenue. His pain was overwhelming. He went out into the hall, and I heard him sob and collapse into a corner. I got so disoriented by the anguish coming through the cell phone that I thought I should not be driving, and pulled into a neighborhood to get out of traffic. I had no idea what to do or what to say; how to end the phone call or how to continue it. My head grew light. I headed to the house to deal with the broken window the police had left behind, and to lock up the house. There were more people to tell as well, including her only brother. 

When Max was maybe two years old, I stood on the porch of the house I was now going to repair and watched him in the dining room, playing with a small wooden train. It was the kind where the cars are held together by round magnets, and on the thick carpet, they kept coming apart when he pulled the engine. He would patiently reassemble the cars, lining up their magnets, only to have it fall apart again when he gave it a tug.

I started to go in and show him how he could move the whole assembly to the hardwood floor and it would all be better, but I stopped myself, literally holding myself back with my hand on the jamb of the doorway. This, I thought, was going to be the most difficult part of being a parent - to watch your children suffer and not rush in to make things better. Best to learn it now, with the little hurts and frustrations I thought, since deeper and more long-lasting ones are sure to come. 

Now here I was, telling each of them that their mother had died. For the older two I was unable to hold them or even to see their faces. I had to, each time, walk away or hang up the phone, which felt like a deep failure on my part. I stood in the empty house they grew up in, walking over shattered glass, and listening to the quiet. Parenting, I remember thinking, just got a whole lot more serious.
