---
layout: post
title:  eGraves
---
One of the issues - of many - that we need to deal with in this networked world is the resurgence and stickiness of the dead. I see notices of the job anniversary of a friend who died three years ago (Linked-In), friend suggestions for my ex-wife (also three years), profiles of my mom in my contact list (two). The rationale thing to do would be to delete these pieces of data. My brain knows it’s just electronic bits stored on a network, but really, I’m supposed to select my mother’s profile and hit the delete key? How does one do that and still feel any shred of human decency? And yet, it feels disrespectful that more than anything else - more than a headstone or photos stuck in an album somewhere, this is their legacy, how we continue to remember them, because it is here that they are brought, unbeckoned, back into our memories. 

It can be at work, in the middle of my consternation about why that stupid vendor has not yet fixed this bill I have asked him to fix for three months running that, in looking up his info, I run across my mother’s image and it stops me like quicksand. Oh yes, my mom, who is dead and who I don’t think about enough and there is an image of her, looking, to be honest, not all that good, but containing all her contact information, none of which is of any use, and so rendering the whole existence of the image, the file, the contact utterly pointless and yet . . .  And yet, to delete it would be so much worse somehow. Defiling. More than disrespectful; somehow a direct insult to her memory. 

And it’s only going to get worse, of course, as the dead pile up around me (I hope, of course, in my own ghoulish and selfish way) and eventually I will be one of those conundrums to other people. I feel as though I ought to send out an email blast, to everyone on all my contact lists, that says feel free to delete me now or at any time after my death; I won’t take it personally. 

It’s the flip side of what to do with the kids’ stuff from second and third grade, all the drawings and report cards that are utterly useless except to drive one sappy, and yet how to throw them out? Give your kids one last look at them and if they don’t want them, toss them, I guess. We’ll see how well I do in a week or two. 
