---
layout: post
title:  Presence
---
As I scroll through the images of Anna, trying to figure out which ones to include in the slide show and in what order, I’m trying to balance a need for some technical quality - a large enough image to be seen on a big screen, or faces that are actually recognizable within the shadows - with those that are likely to be emotionally meaningful to the people watching them. I can’t think about this person, Anna, or about the deep grief Deborah and Rolf must be feeling, because if I did I would never get this slide show completed. There’s a valley of despair that I could certainly stroll through, and maybe even get lost in. The chasm between what we wish would have happened and what did, and the sorrow of our impotence. Anna’s life, at such a young age, held a history of trying to find that deeper, elusive self and then the bright spark of having found some part of it, at least. And what was lost was music and exuberance, stopped short because we collectively and literally drive ourselves to exhaustion. 

I tell my students that photos are important because our brains are wired to remember danger and pain rather than happy times. So we take photos of those happy times as an extension to our memory, and in cases such as Anna’s, these photos are precious reminders of what we have lost and why we feel such grief. 

This past Saturday we went up to the cabin and had a bonfire out back, partly to celebrate a Hunter’s Moon - which I had no idea was a thing until the day before - and mostly to just have a bonfire. Angelica came up from Philly with several friends, and Mike came over with his sister, whose friend joined us after a while. It was a sweet afternoon and evening, filled with cleaning and mowing the grass, splitting wood and harvesting a few peppers from the garden. Then we cooked and sat around the fire, sipped wine and talked about easy subjects.

Earlier though, Mike, who struggles with depression, spoke about how he mourns the loss of his children’s childhoods. It’s a moment I recognize - when you are going through boxes and you pull out a photo of them as toddlers and you yearn for and, in his words, mourn the loss of, that time in their lives. Maybe it is their innocence you yearn for, or your own youth. My sister says she loved their total dependence upon her at that age, which, with all respect, is a notion that I think can only come from a mother. As a father, I always looked forward to their independence, though now that they have it, I too mourn the loss of that time in their lives.

What I mourn though is not their independence, but that lost opportunity I had to be really present with them at the moments in those photographs. I know it’s trendy to talk about presence and being in the moment, but I don’t think it makes it any less true, any more than it is trendy to talk about the need to inflict fewer concussions on our athletes. Parenting is hard, and when you have kids that age - I’m thinking in the 3 to 10 range - with their utter, constant need, most men I know would rather be somewhere else. It’s not that we don’t love our kids or can’t enjoy a lot of those moments; it’s more that we’ve not been raised to really participate in them, so we get antsy. We’d rather be doing what we call ‘adult things,’ but are really just advanced children’s games, like focusing on a computer screen or building a multi-level sandbox. It’s difficult, I believe, for fathers today to unlearn the need to do, and to settle into a child’s world with its overwhelming desire to just be. To enter the play of fantasy, to run trials of friendships, to express wants and desires so unequivocally. And so loudly.

Of course there are women who find this difficult as well, and plenty of men, I’m sure, who don’t understand what I am talking about, but what I heard in Mike’s voice, that longing, was a man who, like me, finds himself looking at the end of his life, filled with relationships which can be best described as past. We’re divorced. Our kids are grown. Our jobs are better done by people younger than ourselves. Our hobbies, once held as possibilities of greatness, are now simple diversions. And it is in the faces of our younger children that we see most clearly the lost opportunities for presence. 

I remember being at a soccer game when Sam was maybe six or seven and a mother near me said she “just wanted to go home and take some aspirin and drink red wine.”  It was a chilly fall day, after work, late in the week, so I could easily identify with the wish. We were too old to go home and take real drugs, but aspirin and red wine would certainly ease the aches and the chill of standing witness to a badly played game of a sport we really had no interest in. What she and I both probably missed though, as we occupied our time with the need to be elsewhere, was what our children were actually going through – the thrill of running over green grass under a blue sky while sometimes kicking a ball. Plenty of parents stood and cheered their kids; many more talked gossip or the price of real estate. These are understandable options, but the price we pay is our current longing. 

We – us, the collective us, here in our town, our society, the West, the world – we inflict such pain on ourselves. On our children our boys, our girls, on women, and yes on men. It’s no wonder we follow our thoughts, constantly, to anywhere but here. Plan for the future, reminisce the past. Wish, long, daydream, hope, rue. 

I sit in my chair, in my office, looking intently at an image of Anna, a young woman I barely knew, and I try to be present to the image, to these emotions of despair and longing I feel. For a rising moment my body is alive, electrified with sorrow for her, her parents, my six-month old son, buried in a rose garden, my mother and my father, Anita, all of them. I should weep, I think, I should let it come out not just through tears, but gush forth from every pore in my body. I should spasm with sorrow; I owe that to someone.

But of course, I don’t. Maybe I’m too alone to do this; maybe I don’t know how. Even that question, I cannot sit with. I go make myself a cup of tea.
