---
layout: post
title:  Movies of Myself
---
I think what I have done is to have spent this time between dropping Eli off at college and now recovering from exhaustion. I carry around all this guilt that I should be doing more and then perch in front of the television each night watching movies, and today I finally gave myself permission to do just that. I’ve been watching some classics: Once Upon a Time in the West, Spartacus, True Grit. I’m quite sure I don’t appreciate them the way a true cinephile does, but I get something from them all the same. In each, one person sacrifices themselves to help another - a true act of love - though of course that word is never used. But they’ve been good reminders that what ennobles us is when we put aside our own needs and wants for someone or something we believe is greater than us, more transcendent. Kids seem to fill that role upon their birth.

Which is nice and all, but I’m still really tapped out. I can’t remember the last time I sat and meditated for twenty minutes; my Spanish has gotten very erratic, my writing inconsistent. I don’t stretch regularly or do yoga, I can’t keep up with politics and I haven’t shot photos in a long while. I did fix some things around the house today, but it feels like putting on band aids and hoping they’ll hold until closing. I need to go somewhere warm for about two weeks and do nothing but take walks and read. 

Of course, the connection between having found Wendy’s unsent letters and this self-criticism does not escape me. There is a constructed image of myself that I used to carry around, and which can return to life, like Lazarus, when I spend too much time alone. In it, I see myself as someone who fills my life with creative endeavors, healthy habits and boundless passions. Yoga in the morning, followed by a healthy lunch and reading of Thomas Merton, then getting swept up in some creative outlet like writing or painting or photography into the early hours of the morning, turning out works of undeniable genius. But I was in my early twenties when I realized that this was not me, nor anyone I knew really, and I think I’ve been disappointed on some level every since. Which I guess I can forgive myself for; harder to forgive is the not-quite-latent envy of those who actually fit the description.

Emily Levine, in a Ted Talk I recently watched, talked about the difference between work and labor. She describes work as coming from our heads, the stuff we do to construct things, make things, improve things, whereas labor comes from our bodies and hearts and is what we do to simply stay in concert with the universe. (Okay, I’m definitely paraphrasing.) Maybe what she said was that work comes from the head and labor comes from the body, but the previous is what I heard and what resonated with me. To put it in simplistic terms that my mind can understand, labor is in the garden; work is in front of a computer screen. The older I get, the more I identify with labor, and that seems natural to me. When we get to this point in our lives, we no longer feel as though we must make our mark on the world, or rather we can see what mark we have made and we can come to terms with this as being the meaning of our lives. No need to go searching for it anymore. 

And of course the underlying transformation is moving from a selfish desire, from wishing to be recognized as a great artist, to some more other directed ones: to have loved well my kids and my wife, to have helped high-schoolers navigate their way through what was for them a rather treacherous time in their lives. To have been kind to more people than I have been unkind to. To be truly grateful for what I have given.

Which means, when I sit on the couch and watch Coppolla’s The Conversation, while Gwen curls up next to my head on the back of the couch, to accept that this is enough. To be, for the moment, grateful for the warm house, the amazingly convenient way to peer into another person’s mind, and the animal noise of contentment. 
