---
layout: post
title: Space
---
#### June 19

For just about ten years now, Janette and I have been living in this five bedroom, four bath house in Silver Spring, a Maryland suburb of Washington DC. She lived here ten years prior to that; my kids and I moved in a few months before she and I married. Five bedrooms, four baths sounds really big, but that’s relative since she was a single mom with three kids of her own when we met. So yeah, we’re a real life Brady Bunch off by one: she had two girls and a boy.

Even when it was just Eli left, it felt too small. The original three bedrooms are sized circa 1950’s, when the house was built and when, apparently, people were smaller and had a lot less stuff. One bedroom is seriously smaller than most of today’s master bedroom walk-in closets, and so Eli occupied that entire three-bedroom suite as it were, while Janette and I slept in the basement bedroom and I used the remaining one as an office. I always felt bad that my kids rarely invited their friends over to the house, inventing all kinds of horrible reasons in my mind for why that would be so until Max alluded to the fact that it was because there was no basement here as there was at his mom’s - the house on Second Avenue - where they could disappear into a relatively private space complete with multimedia entertainment. 

But for the past couple of days, with Eli in China and Janette in PA, the house has been all mine. This has happened before of course, but only for very limited time spans. Maybe an evening at most. Now, it’s more or less permanent - at least for the next 5 weeks.

And the house feels - is - absurdly big. 

The two cats help to fill it some, and having said that, I’m not complaining. I’m an introvert by nature - I score a 10/10 on that side of the scale on the Meyers-Briggs test - and my ideal living space would be an empty 50,000 square foot room, like a warehouse, with me, a bed and a desk. But the question the house seems to be asking me is, are you lonely? Do you miss them? Are you sad to be an empty-nester?

Short answer: not yet. 

One reason is Slack, and I’m very grateful for it. If you don’t know, Slack is a kind of texting platform, an app you can use on your phone, computer or tablet, and I use it variously on all three. It’s meant for the workplace, to allow companies or teams to communicate, and my kids and I use it to keep in touch. It’s much better than a phone, which maybe my kids use with their friends or other people, but not with me much. (Again, that’s okay. Phone conversations leave me searching for the person’s face, the slight lift of a shoulder or a sudden lightening of the eyes; without them, I get antsy and get involved with whatever comes into my field of vision.) Slack allows group discussions and private ones, and my kids and I send each other documents, share web links, videos, pictures - mainly, stereotypically, of cats - and whatever else comes across our digital awareness. We’ve discussed philosophy, are planning our trip to China, and use it for lots of mundane checking in, which I love. It’s no joke when I joke that I parent via text.

Our use of Slack has allowed us to have our own space together, even as we are on opposite sides of the continent and of the globe. And yes, there are moments when I miss them terribly and want much more than what I can garner from a computer screen, but it’s better, in my opinion, than a letter every three months, or an expensive long distance phone call every three weeks. 

There are those people who, when I tell them where my kids are, or where they go or went to school, react with, “That’s so far away!” Many of the parents I work with at school would never allow that for their kids. It’s not so much of their saying no to their child’s wanting to go to USC say, as much as their having raised a child who would never imagine wanting to go that far. Which is fine. Every family is different, and I would never hold mine up as a paradigm of what one should be. And my role as a father is, of course, complicated and many faceted, but one significant theme has always been to say yes to their interests. As Harry Truman said, “Find out what your child wants to do, and then advise them to do that.” In short, give them space to be themselves. To find themselves.

I’m not talking about indulging their every whim, or never saying no to them. Those, I think, are horrible things to do to a child. But at a time when we parents were constantly being warned about the dangers of computers, two of my kids showed a keen interest in them, and so, against all the advice coming my way, I gave them freedom to spend a lot of time on them. And again, against all advice, they had that time alone in their rooms, away from my prying eyes.

Did I second guess myself? Sure, a lot, But it turned out to be the right decision, at least in my children’s cases. (So far, so far. Who knows what virus they have created and planted within government computers that simply have yet to take root?) For their part, I think they valued the trust I placed in them to make good decisions, to be able to navigate life without my constant supervision. Maybe not. I should ask them. 

Meanwhile, I think I’ll stretch out on the empty couch and take a nap. Seems like the best use of an empty house. 
