---
layout: post
title:  Crossings
---

Hong Kong is not as I pictured it. For one, the heat is terrifying. It feels like a contagion on my skin and in my lungs. Combined with my jet lag, it limits just how much I’m willing to wander about the city. But still we go back and forth across Victoria Harbour, up to the Jade Market, down into the subway. Students have been rioting here for months, and the PRC has shown increasing signs of discomfort with the situation, but so far nothing has happened. We do see a flurry of love notes to the protesters posted along a wall in one of the underground stops, and a few kids sitting peacefully in gas masks with signs, but otherwise the heat seems to have induced a lull.

A woman I used to work with had as good an explanation as any for the pervasiveness of violence as well as its limitation. “It works,” she said. “But only in the short term.” My kids acknowledge the politics of the city, but don’t seem too wrapped up in it. They seem more invested in moving towards vegetarianism as a way to change the world rather than direct confrontation. Both are probably necessary, but for their sakes and mine, I’m glad they are taking the long view.  

I’m not entirely sure what I expected of Hong Kong: something more exotic, I think. The double-decker busses fascinate me, they being so out of place in this tropical harbor town with its narrow streets and Asian cuisine. And yet I’m also surrounded by western corporations, from Starbucks to Wells Fargo, as well as by air-conditioned BMW’s and plenty of English. I’m thinking the best way to go forward is to clean my mental slate of any pre-conceived ideas I have about China, which, of course, all come from a Western bias. I can’t get rid of all my predispositions, but at least being aware of a few may help.

That, and a cool breeze, which is just as likely.

At 2:00 am, Max arrives from Hawaii. In addition to a blistering sunburn on his back, he’s got a heart-shaped earring in his right lobe, and a tattoo reminiscent of his mother’s on his ankle, just where she had two dancing skeletons. We hug and it feels deeply satisfying to feel his slender presence in my arms. We chat a bit; he and Sam are sharing a double bed just a foot or so away from mine, and the three of us drift off to sleep.  I try hard not to get sentimental and picture them as children in their bunk beds, but this is what soothes me to sleep. 

They both seem on spiritual quests. From our study of pendulums, this is to be expected: I brought them up with an awareness of religion and philosophy but without prescription. They have planned a trip to India and Nepal after Eli and I leave them in Beijing. Earlier, Sam told me that toward the end of this year he plans to travel back to the States by way of Europe, coming back home for the holidays before moving in with Peifen in December or January. I offer him relationship advice that he does not ask for, and it sounds sober and practical and completely inappropriate to my own ears. 

I awake at 5:30, wait 45 minutes and then go looking for coffee. Nothing is open and I’ve forgotten my wallet anyway. I return to the room, listen to my children’s deep breathing and try to meditate but my mind is scattered and electric and it’s mostly unsatisfying. Starbucks opens at 7:30 and I buy black coffee and sit in the refrigerated basement space, listening to American music and watching Asians work their phones. One older gentleman, with a fountain pen tucked into the pocket of his white dress shirt and a neat head of gray hair with a matching mustache reads a paper. I wonder what he does for a living, who his wife is and what their tender moments are like. How often do they have them still? Do they have children? Are those children sources of happiness for them? Is he worried about retirement? Does he even still like his job?

Sam and I touched on this topic last night, as we watched one stream of people leaving the Kowloon ferry as another stream entered it, the ferry itself on an endless errand between the island and mainland. “Every one of those individuals,” Sam said, “has a life as full and rich as your own. There’s a word for that, I think.”

“I don’t know,” I said. “But if there is, it’s probably German. Something like, ‘Getoveryourselfen’.”

My kids, I think now, have so much ahead of them, and are rich in so many ways. 

I have an unmanageable impulse to go wake them up. And so I do. 




