---
layout: post
title: Alarms
---
About a year and a half after Wendy’s death, her only brother Scott wrote his wife a note, explaining that he’d paid a few bills and asking her to please apologize to a golfing partner of his for being unable to make their date a few days later. Then he took a gun and walked out to a spot near their back yard and shot himself. 

I found out in a roundabout way, and when I told Eli, I’d barely gotten the sentence out when he said simply, “Nope.” He got up from the table, put his dishes on the counter, and walked into his room.

I let him be, in part because I had no other response. There was nothing to explain, and I had no way to comfort him. It was too complicated, too distant and too close to home: his uncle had killed himself, unable to handle the loss of his mother. It was the final sweeping clean of a cold and empty room, vacated by each member of that small family in their own, tragic way.

Scott had held within him the same distance as his sister, and occupied a far middle distance in my kids’ lives. He showed up at holidays; they spent each Christmas Eve with him and his family, but he wasn’t really a part of their inner lives at all. He told me once that I was like the brother he had never had, and it felt to me at the time as though he were reading those words from a teleprompter just over my shoulder, that it was a sentiment he needed to get out of the way so that it would not have to be addressed any further. He struck me as a lonely man, and I knew of his depression after he lost first his father then his sister. And yet his suicide - and the manner of it, such a violent tribute to his mother - still came as a shock. 

Weeks later Sam brought Eli into my home office, where he rolled up his sleeve and showed me the scars of his own making. It took a few seconds as I went through a mental checklist: accident, mugging victim and improbably, virus, before registering what was in front of me. “I’m so sorry,” I said to him, and held him tight. “I’m so sorry.” I said it twice because the first was for the lifetime’s worth of pain he was going through, and for his inability, through no fault of his own, to express it other than to inflict a wound that was visible, that had closure. The second time was for not seeing this as it stood right in front of me.

It’s difficult to be angry with the dead. Though their presence fills the space around and within us, they are somehow more fragile, more prone to be damaged by our words, if disrespectful, or by any emotion other than mournful. So we think. 

The deaths of those we love are things we pick up and carry with us forever, and so they become ours, not theirs, and how we carry them and how we view that burden is up to us to decide. Whether we want it to or not, it becomes a part of who we are. Kick it, punch it if you will; love it if you can. It’s not going anywhere. This I know from Zachary, my six month old child whose ashes we buried in a rose garden; from my mother and my father, buried together in a cold veteran’s cemetery in Rhode Island; from Wendy, whose ashes sit still on the closet shelf, from Anita, whose spirit seems never very far. So why was I so unable to help my own child?

+

Last night, I had dinner with Janette and her three kids, plus Alyssa, Kelson’s longtime girlfriend. They’re all sweet people. We had a difficult start to our relationships - they were resentful of my moving in with my three kids and taking away from them, in part, what had been their house, their mother, their way of doing things. People don’t like change generally, and they really resist it when it’s not something they have chosen.

But time and distance have helped, as they have all been away for a variety of reasons, and if I’m truly honest about it, I think I moved up in their estimation when held up as comparison to their own father. He and I have met only a few times in passing, and I have nothing against him personally, but he does seem to have disappointed them in significant ways over the past ten years or so. And in contrast, my making them ribs on the grill seems like a loving thing to do, I guess. 

Anyway, I find each of them to be smart, funny, kind-hearted. Just like their mother. And as I sat around the table last night, appreciating the humor and love all these people exhibited toward one another and the world generally, I was deeply grateful for all the things that go well. We start out as zygotes, and the complexity of things that have to go right for us to be born healthy is astonishing, and that’s just the start. It’s no wonder we try to exert such control, to protect our kids from things which we think will hurt them, to encourage them with gushing words of praise for anything they do that is even remotely right. And the only bottom-line solution I have for any of it, I keep reminding myself, is to wake up and pay attention. 
