---
layout: post
title:  Gulfs
---
Eli says one of the things he struggled with in his job as camp counselor was when, despite the camp rule against running, he wanted to let the kids run because running is part of being a kid.

I nodded. “So is falling,” I said.

“So is falling,” he repeated. “But compared to the other counselor, the one that doesn’t let them run, it seems like I don’t care as much, because I’m willing to let them fall and get hurt.”

And I said I struggled with that as well, raising him and his brothers. I wanted to let them grow up to be independent and yet I always worried that it seemed as though I didn’t care. There was a bit of panic within me then as it seemed we were heading into a corner within this conversation, one in which I would have to expressly state directly to my son that I cared. But that would be easy, I thought, and then it wasn’t him, it was my father, and then I was my father, looking at me and the panic made sense and left me shaking.

Later we stopped into a pub because I was tired of the Chinese beers which all taste like low-alcohol versions of Budweiser, and the kids got tired of my whining for an IPA, and Eli brought up the fact that I gave each them half a grapefruit every morning but wouldn’t let them put sugar on it. 

“Did I? Huh. I guess I was a good father,” I said, only partially in sarcasm.

“Was?” Max asked. “You still are,” he said and lay his hand upon my arm, and I said thank you, and it felt natural and not really even worth noting except that never in a million years could I have said such a thing or made such a gesture to my father. And that is a fault, I see now, that he and I created together, and I am left to correct on my own.

+

Now we are on a train traveling to Mount Emei, one of the four holy mountains of China (depending on who you believe, there could be anywhere from three to seven holy mountains, and probably more, with different peaks for different regions and religions) and I find myself struggling with the following conundrum: that in order to have good things come to one, I must have a good spirit and to have a good spirit I must develop humility and to develop humility I must let go of desires, which is what started this though train in the first place, that desire to have good things come to me. This really starts with my missing what I think would be good photographs by a second or two or five or less than one - it would have been good if this had occurred, and not that, or if I had shuttered a moment earlier or later instead of when I did, to the point that then I sit at the window seat it seems the landscape is drab or we spend most of our time in tunnels, but when Max sits there it seems more intriguing and I feel as though I am missing out on some great photos and that I will return from my trip with little to show for my efforts. And when I think of the other things I am here to do - reconnect with my kids and to learn about China, to experience it – and I think maybe I am letting photography get in the way, to the point where I will leave the country with having tried to do several things and accomplished none, which is what I too often do, as in, have done with my life.

So I conclude that I need luck – or maybe what Gerald May called Grace - and luck comes to those with a pure spirit and generous heart and I think I lack those, I surely lack those, for I have no luck at the things wherein I desire luck, so I must undertake to develop a pureness of spirit and let go of the desire for all such things in the first place, and I look over max’s shoulder and see houses, bright and clear in the sunlight and white against the vibrant green grass and I think, where was that on the last leg of the trip, when I was at the window? I know I want it – to produce beautiful photographs (but toward what end?) - too easily, that I have come to it too late in my life and must let it go. I must surrender, must let go of anything which reflects upon me.

This morning, after a restless night (too much tea I think) in which anxieties unnamed tossed and turned me in the bed, I finally was able to name one, and wrestled with it, namely how my kids see me, and how I appear in their eyes and I had a moment when I let myself knowledge that I am a person filled with insecurities and anxieties and that is just who I am and it is okay for them to know and to see that. And that felt good and the anxiety vanished in one of those wholly Eastern moments of getting to a place by standing still and I am trying to apply this now and it feels difficult to let go of wanting accomplishment and recognition and accolades and knowing too I don’t want them when I get them because deep down, I sense that I don’t deserve them. I pray I have not passed this along to my kids and from what I can see, my prayers are for naught because they seem fine. Unless that is what I want to see. 

We travel on a long trace of a golden spiral, from Kunming northeast to Chongqing then northwest to Changdu and then finally south to Emeiman. It’s along journey and by 9:30 my nerves are a bit frayed. If the Chinese understand noise pollution, they understand it as a positive thing. Multiple people talk constantly, one more loudly than the next, a good half-dozen babies shout and cry and everyone it seems, has their cell phone or tablet playing music, video or a combination of the two, never into headphones. People take calls and end them with grunts. The PA shouts above everything else while monitors play silent - god bless them - videos promoting train travel. It is a cacophony of the worst kind of nerve-fraying din, and it seems endless as our supposedly high speed train crawls its way from station to station.

Earlier, Max offered me his seat at the window, which was truly kind of him, and I took it gladly, even guiltily, after all my existential teeth-gnashing earlier. We immediately entered a series of tunnels. After about 20 minutes we emerged, and I spent some time snapping futilely way with diminishing sunlight, then packed up the Nikon. He and I went on a fruitless search for food. Upon our return, I offered him the window seat, at which point the train switched directions and the sun came out in its golden hour glory. Never mind, I told myself. 

I read some, occasionally glancing up at the bluing clouds. To my left, they hung in spectral strips, low and close. Behind, a salmon-pink sky silhouetted a low-slung city and in between, a solitary hill rose as a crescent, supporting an anorexic-thin pagoda, stretching up to a spire which seemed within tantalizing reach of the spectral clouds. It was a delicate, near-iconic image of the Chinese landscape and was as out of reach for me to capture as if it were in another galaxy. A fleeting Monet. To extract my camera, get the settings right, shoot across the people in the opposite aisle - I never would have captured it. But I can describe it, I thought. I have my memory. 

I looked over at Max. He was buried in a book. Eli sat behind me, looking at the screen of his laptop, while Sam had obviously gone somewhere, probably to get hot water. The Buddha was right, I thought. Desire is the root of all this suffering.
