---
layout: post
title:  Death and Me
---
Death is not who I thought it would be. They made clear to me that they are neither male nor female, so I should defer to the contemporary use of ‘they,’ and that they would appreciate that courtesy. They wore muted purple tights under neon green shorts, shin-high worker’s boots, a Pink Floyd t-shirt and a flannel hoodie framing not a face, but an oval of black void, which was about the only thing I had expected. I served them tea. 普尔 Pu'er tea, from China; amber-colored and delicious. “It’s from the Yunnan province,” I said, hoping to impress them with my travels.

We settled on the L-shaped couch, across from one another. There was a stretch of awkward silence, as I searched for small talk. My eyes cast about for a subject; should I offer a game of chess? That seemed like a bad idea. There was a book of modern landscapes on the coffee table – would they be interested in that? I was afraid I was out of my league there, so I decided to just plunge ahead.

“I’ve been thinking about you a lot lately,” I said. It’s difficult to judge reactions when your conversation partner has no face. Also, Death doesn’t talk, so I forged ahead.

“I figure the remainder of my life should be spent in getting to know you better, so that when we finally, you know . . .” I raised both eyebrows in anticipation. I was never any good at seduction, but usually when you hint at the possibility of future amorous entanglements, you get a hint of a smile, or a knitting of the brow - something that lets you know if you are on the right trail. Instead, Death simply lifted its mug to chest height and a bit of the tea disappeared. Were those breasts under that t-shirt?

“Anyway, don’t get me wrong. I love my wife. I love my kids and I don’t want to leave them. It’s just that you and I seem, I don’t know, I don’t really believe in soul-mates. More like we are destined to be together?”

No reaction.

“I mean, I understand if you’re not interested, and that’s fine, though eternal life isn’t really something I think I would be happy with. I’m sure some people would jump at such a chance, but I just find you so intriguing. Maybe we could leave it open-ended? Can we say there’s at least the possibility of us, you know, getting together? Because I’ve been hearing about you all my life, though if I’m honest, I never paid much attention to you when I was younger. Which isn’t to say I didn’t know about you, I guess I was just distracted. You know, growing up, getting a job, falling in love, all of that.” Maybe that was a mistake; maybe they didn’t want to hear about my former infatuations. “But they weren’t lasting, you know? I feel like you and I, we could do something more, you know, permanent.”

Up went the mug again. Down went the tea. Yes, that was definitely a breast there, right under the prism, as though from Death’s bosom springs all the colors we can see. That was interesting. Then the mug went down to the table, and they shifted away from me, turning slightly on the couch. 

“Do you not like the tea?” Was that a sigh? With so little to go on, I felt like this was slipping away from me. I thought of Janette, the kids. There was, still, a lot I wanted to see with them.

“Look,” I said. “I can see this isn’t really resonating with you, and that’s fine. No commitments. But we know a lot of people in common, so we are definitely going to run into one another again, and I’d just like to know where we stand. Should I be happy about that? Will you be happy to see me? Do I have any hope at all?

That got their attention. They turned on the couch, put both boots on the floor and squared their shoulders to me. Their hands, which I realized I somehow had not seen up until now, reached out and took mine. I looked down and their skin was a night’s sky, a hundred thousand stars and space, stretching back into time, so that I felt small and insignificant. Their nails changed through a spectrum of color, from matte black to summer’s blues and greens, from mother-of-pearl to ripe peach to pennant yellow and finally, as though they could read my heart, Eros’ red, full of passion and the promise of heartache. They let it linger there, feeling my heart racing now, and then the hoodie shook, saying no, not now, you need to do better, to do more to gain my favor. And then they were gone.

Honestly, I have to say I was relieved. I’m just not ready to make that kind of commitment, especially to someone I still don’t know all that well. I mean, who knows who they have been with and what kind of strange disease I could catch and bring back to the people I love? 

I finished my tea. Another day, another step forward. 
