---
layout: post
title: Depression
---
I told Janette of my dream and she suggested that perhaps the witch was my depression, which I had inherited from my mother, and no longer needed or wanted. That is, I think, as good of a theory as any, since I have nothing in particular against my mother: she may not have been the most loving of parents, but she never hurt any of us as far as I know and was certainly not mean or abusive in any way. 

I recently saw a clip of Jon Stewart interviewing George Carlin, who  repeatedly asserts that much, if not most, of who we are is genetic. As a parent and teacher, I find this difficult to argue against. Watching my own kids from zero to six months, I’ve always described them as being who they are pretty much right out of the box: Sam, quiet and self-assured, Max loquacious, Eli cerebral. So, even if I have broken my own depression, have I also passed it on to my kids?  And will they pass it on to theirs? Can curing oneself of something like depression ever change the genetics? Or is it always dependent on genes, and who you might marry?

And of course, they get it not just from me, but from their mother’s side of the family with all of those tragic consequences. I hope, deeply and for their sakes, that that particular witch has been destroyed. 

This morning I awoke  to a rainstorm. Janette and I sat in our sitting area and had coffee while it grew dark and lightning flashed and thunder rolled and -  unbeknownst to us in our cozy and dark cocoon - Washington DC flooded. We talked about depression until I remembered I had a meeting and jumped up in a panic, thinking I was late.

Janette is a family and marriage therapist, and has a lot of clients who come to her with an abundance of anxiety, and she said she feels like she can help them, that she can point a path forward with some concrete steps and practices and they’ll generally say yes, and try the steps, and they make progress. Not always steady, but usually forward.

Those who she sees who have genuine chronic depression on the other hand: her experience, she tells me, is that they want to hang on to their illness. I get that. Because when you are depressed, you a) feel as though there’s nothing particularly wrong with you, you're just sad about events which have happened to you and over which you have no control, such as your partner being a jerk to you, and b) there is this ego thing happening. This ego thing is that all around you are signals telling you that you are unloved, unworthy, a loser, and so you develop this kind of compensatory ego around a few things, maybe the most important of them being that you know yourself better than anyone else. So when a therapist or counselor tells you that maybe you could get better, that last gasp of worthiness, that sense that you are maybe right about this last, most personal thing, is at risk. 

This got me thinking about my students. I am currently the Assistant Head of School at a small independent high school here in the DC area, and we work with a lot of kids who have been damaged, by either the public schools, or bigger and more rigid private schools, or by drugs, or by their families, or any number of issues. And one thing I notice in action a lot is projection: that idea that what you are subconsciously dealing with within yourself is what you see exhibited by others, either because it’s there or because you see it there. For instance, suppose I don’t like that I am less than fully honest, then my partner’s lying will drive me up a wall - whether he or she is lying or not.

Here’s what happens in your school: teachers work with a kid for a month or so and pretty quickly develop a sense of who they are and what their struggles are. Johnny, for instance, seems very reluctant to listen to your requests. Ask him to take out a notebook and he’ll sit without moving for a while, then reluctantly take it out. 

There may be several reasons for this: he may have slow processing speed. He’s not dumb (in fact, some kids I’ve worked with who have been hobbled by very slow processing speed have been quite brilliant - it just takes them a while to get there), or he may have a receptive laguage processing issue, or he may not be getting much sleep at night and is just cranky in his first period class, which is when you have him.

And then you have Back-to-School night and you meet his dad who is overbearing and controlling to the nth degree and you say,oh, okay, it makes a lot of sense now. Johnny is just fighting for survival.

So I think about that, and I think about Janette, whose mother died from suicide when Janette was 13. She suffered from bipolar disorder and would lock Janette in the basement at times, sometimes for the entire day. Not a finished basement mind you, but a dark one, filled with cobwebs and an old  furnace and not much more. To this day, Janette has a deep fear of spiders.

After her mother's death - because her father had left long before - she and her brother were put in a variety of foster homes until she was about 17, and eventually she made her way to the US, where she entered school at the University of Georgia and underwent what must have been the Mother of All Culture Shocks. So I take that information, and I wonder how she ended up married to me, someone who has suffered from chronic depression for oh, about 45 years now. The answer, if you believe all the self-help books, is another aspect of projection, which is that in me she gets to save her mother. It’s either that or she was actually seduced by my charm, my good looks and my family’s fortune.

All  of which, of course, leads me back to my own situation, because I am, by nature, self-obsessed. How do I help my children ward off their genetically inherited predisposition to depression? Is it enough to simply say, be aware of it and if you see it coming, get thee to a doctor and a subscription of SSRIs? And even if those types of drugs helped me (and they most certainly did, I would attest) would they help them? I wonder if it is good that they are half a world away, lest I project onto them all my fears of their developing depression and drive them to it with my focus. I wonder if I’m being neglectful by not asking them directly about it: Are you feeling depressed? It seems like such a stupid question when I talk to them and they sound fine, but I wonder - what did my own parents hear when they talked wi me? If they were depressed, how would they know I was?

And then I remember what my sister Charlotte said once. She said that as a parent, you do your best, and when they are 25 they can get their own damned therapist.  
