---
layout: post
title:  Chien
---
Heard from Eli while on my way up to West Chester. I think he’s fine. With Merlin alive, he wanted to do whatever he could to keep him that way, but now that Merlin is gone, there’s nothing much for him to do except accept it. He added a bunch of photos to the Merlin folder, and then talked excitedly about his new job - his first ever, really. At least in the traditional sense; he’s earned money with his coding skills before. 
+
We had a collie when I was very small. She pre-dated my entry to the family, so I just always knew her to the there, though where “there” was, was sort of a mystery – there was an unspoken distance between us and that dog. She never even received a name. We called her “Chien” at times, which is French for “dog,” and “Puppy” at other times. I cannot recall anyone ever brushing her or caring for her more than giving her some food. She was a curiosity we sometimes were amused by, or rather by our father’s reaction to her, which was mild disdain, as though she were a failure as a dog.
A neighbor adopted her, wordlessly. She had pity on the dog and would give her food and water and love, so the dog spent her days on the old woman’s porch, her loyalties clearly divided enough to keep her from actually entering the house. And though the years of neglect rendered her dirty-white, she was white enough to blend in with the snow and so got struck by a car one winter’s evening and my dad ventured out and dealt with her and returned home and that was that. There seemed to be a mysterious collective shrug, except for the neighbor woman, who cried when next I delivered her newspapers to her.
All this comes to mind after I talk with Eli and I think that had he been there, he never would have allowed that old collie’s death to pass by in such an unacknowledged way. And, I think, the longer we live, the more deaths pile up in our personal history, and the more we begin to understand its importance. All graves need to be clearly marked, if only in our hearts. 
