---
layout: post
title:  Routine
---
Apparently, Eli is in texting Janette every single day, sending her photos and telling her how he is getting along out there in Portland. Meanwhile, I don’t hear from him all that much, and I’d be lying if I said this doesn’t bother me, that I’m not at least a little bit envious. But truthfully, I understand. I’m the dad, the parent, the authority figure, and she’s ever so sweet, and the only adult woman in his life. And then he and I are not seeing eye-to-eye on Merlin, either.

The situation with Merlin is dragging me down. Merlin is dragging me down. I am more patient with him these days, fully aware of his suffering, but my patience has limits, which it reached last night when he whined to be let out, whined to be let in after I’d gone to bed, then whined at my bedroom door, pawing it incessantly because he wanted yet more food. I threw him outside, where he remained, silent at least unto my ears, until this morning. Now he is whining again, even as he hovers over two bowls full of food, one wet and one dry, and a bowlful of water. 

The problem of course is that I need to make a decision and I need to either commit to spending a ridiculous amount of money in the hopes of prolonging his life for at least some time - including not just the procedure, but hiring someone to come in and care for him four days a week afterwards - or I need to make the decision to put him down and support Eli through it as best I can. In that regard, his contact with Janette may be really good for him, since if he’s upset and angry with me, he can still connect with her. But one way or the other, I have to put an end to this situation wherein Merlin suffers while I fret about what to do. 

+

Last night, I noticed a sad side-effect to my life of the New York Times, the Washington Post, Facebook, Reddit, NPR, and all the other media which I invite to come at me every day: it’s killing my curiosity. I scroll through headlines, and the stories are all small updates or iterations of ones I have seen before. It’s not just the growing sense of helplessness in the face of a government that is determined to destroy the environment and hundreds of thousands of people’s lives, but a growing sense that I just can’t read about all the various things that are out there: the habit of lies, the routine corruption, the interstellar discoveries, the measuring of protons, the new research into teen depression, the “game-changer” that turns out to be a slight upgrade to this, that or the other. Suddenly football, with all its violence and racism and misogyny and overt class structures seems relatively entertaining and simple. This team won; that one lost. True, it’s the same story as always, just as is the news, but it has closure at the end, unlike the Mideast or Brexit. And one team beating the other in the Super Bowl has no consequence, whereas willful ignorance and defiance in the face of a thawing permafrost most certainly does.

So I have fallen into a regrettable routine of, when Janette is away, coming home from school and letting my fatigue win. I fix a bit of food, play with Photoshop for an hour or so, then settle in to watch a movie while drinking a glass of wine. It’s not a terrible routine, but it feels somnambulistic and that sense of sleepwalking - with only so many days and evenings stretching out before me -  does feel terrible. 

My children meanwhile, at least two of them, are trekking through Nepal, sending texts about landslides and getting lost, photos of mist-shrouded landscapes and the local fauna. I’m envious and weary. I focus on more available pleasures: the soft feel of Gwen’s fur, the woody odor of incense, the sunlight slipping down the trees as I sit here typing. It’s a pleasant moment, and I can let my children be, to walk in the mountains or the treacheries of campus life, to inhabit their own sufferings without me, and their own pleasures where they hopefully can find them. Obviously, I think, peace is not a state I strive to inhabit, but a point of view I can adopt. It’s just difficult to hold on to sometimes. 
