---
layout: post
title:  Foreigners
---
The train from Chengdu to Xian, the LED display tells me we are clipping along at 244 kph. That seems to be the standard cruising speed for these trains, though once I noticed we were at 294. On one short, one-hour leg we could not get seats except in first class, and there they did not display the train’s speed, as though first-class passengers would not be interested in such base things. I like it in part because of how unremarkable our speed so often is - save when I am trying to snap a photo - and how, when we slow down to about 160, it seems as though we are crawling along.

Taking photos out the window is difficult. I have this new lens, made for travel, with settings for trying to capture images while moving. It’s a bit more than the standard vibration reduction, as it tries to compensate for your movement as well. So I like to sit in the window, but snapping something worthwhile at these speeds is much more difficult than I would have guessed. The scenes fly by, and though they may register near instantly on my brain as being worthy of a photo, that recognition is too late. So I’ve started simply holding the camera up to my eye and watching the landscape through the lens. I could never do this with film of course, there are so many duds, what with wrong focus, fences, posts, poor composition or just plain boring photos being the norm of what I catch. And the tunnels. The endless tunnels.

There are so many photos I miss from the train: the guard, standing straight and stiff at attention, on top of the platform for one, besides the track but a good two kilometers from the station, in 96 degree heat. The road passing over the emerald hill, a man pulling his cart. The other bullet train, parallel to us, at the same speed. The girl on the bike, looking like 17 year old girls everywhere who have so much in front of them. The old man on his bike, a tricycle, loaded with cardboard. The dry canal, leading through Mao-era housing, covered in laundry and rust. 

No matter. I cannot capture every photo I see, and I cannot hang onto every moment, no matter how much I may wish to. What would be nice though, is to let go of all those moments in my life – moments of shame, of anger, of sheer and profound stupidity – which I seem to hang onto and instead. 

+
When we left Chengdu, we walked out of the hotel into bright heat and the noise of traffic: mopeds, car horns, the jackhammer drills of construction, a thousand people making their way to work, scootering, walking, bicycling, taking their work with them on their mopeds, with platforms of containers added on with bolts, straps, home-made welds and string; street vendors hawking food and plastic toys, and all of it in a crazy wash of varying directions, ignoring traffic signals and laws, simply heading straight for where they need to go. Eli says Chinese traffic moves like fish, only my sense is that schools of fish move coherently, and this most decidedly does not. 

Chengdu has a reputation for being a laid back city, and as far as we could tell it seemed well deserved. The people we met were relaxed and friendly for the most part, though they were still fascinated with us enough to have one guy drag Eli and make him pose with his rather scary-looking girlfriend. This, it seems, is the Chinese male’s primary purpose in boy-girl relationships, which is to take the girlfriend’s picture posing in front of old doors, vistas, archways, steps, historical markers, famous restaurants or street signs, and basically anywhere and anytime the girl demands it, which is quite often. And of course, with blonde-haired, blue-eyed foreign devils. 

This evening, we pull into Tienshui, and we are fairly removed from the tourist track. The city is stretched out over 20 kilometers of river, and as we travel from the east end, where the train station is, to the west end where our hotel sits, I see a lot of everyday Chinese, hanging out and playing badminton on the streets or walking home from work or fixing their mopeds. There are no fancy stores or re-built edifices; just gray buildings and people at the end of a workday.

We check in, have some noodles next door at a shop that is Muslim owned, and every one in the shop checks us out, repeatedly and at length. Afterwards, Eli wants to return to the room, so Sam and I walk up to a square and find an immense plaza, decked out in lights, full of people: thousands have gathered here to dance, to sing, to let their children roller-blade and skateboard and simply run around. It is a beautiful evening - 23 degrees and dry - and people are out, enjoying the nighttime and one another. The dancing is a square dance, and there are competing groups of thirty people or so, one group with decidedly more energy. Everyone joins in, from old men to young children and everyone seems to be thoroughly enjoying themselves, including the onlookers. We get some passing stares, but for the most part, people are too busy having a good time to pay us much heed. Sam buys himself a fan - I’d assumed he had been looking for one for Peifen - and I am interested in a pair of walnuts, but the vendor wants 100 quai, or about fourteen dollars and I walk away without even bothering to haggle. The idea of the walnuts is that you rotate them around in your hand - like the Chinese singing balls - and they eventually get worn to a smooth, white finish. (Unlike the singing balls, the walnuts are supposed to rub up against one another.) This is supposed to be good for you in several respects, including arthritis in the hand, which I may or may not be developing, but I certainly have tendinitis from typing and using a mouse. At any rate, I can get a couple of plain walnuts from a grocery store, despite the claim that these walnuts are “special.”

There’s a lot of claims for “special” here. A standard bottle of water in a small shop may cost about one or two quai - maybe twenty or twenty-five cents - but some bottles claim to be from “higher up the mountain,” and therefore less contaminated, or more pure. These can run up to ten times the cost. I recall reading a story about Chinese herbal tea, reputedly good for many ailments and advertised as organic and coming from centuries of Chinese wisdom. Turns out it was being dried by being laid out on a warehouse floor and having a truck drive over it to dry it with its exhaust, spewing all kinds of carbon monoxide and lead over the leaves.

+

I am in a good mood today. I feel as though I have re-found my center, am more affable and generous in my spirit. I check in to see why: perhaps it is because we are moving again. Or perhaps it’s me adjusting to a new, much lower daily intake of caffeine. I sit at the station with Eli; he is dressed in a denim-blue long skirt with embroidered flowers. I puff out my chest (metaphorically speaking) against the stares. These are my children, Sam with his long hair, Max with his Taiji, Eli with his skirt. They are good and dear people and I love them and I will defend each of them against the stares of others. Maybe, I think, it’s just taken me three weeks of vacation to learn how to start enjoying life again.
