---
layout: post
title: The Roaring Twenties
---
#### June 23

Finally got around to responding to Max’s birthday request for a story and book recommendations.:

Twenty-one years ago. After a lot of difficulty with doctors and the way they treated her around your older brother’s birth, your mom decided to have you at home. I was reluctant at first, having been brought up to respect the opinion of doctors no matter what, but came around when a) I learned more about home births and b) I realized there would be no changing your mom’s mind anyway. 
 
The days prior to the fifth had been typical July weather in the DC region: hot and humid to the point where cowering inside next to the air conditioning outlet was about all you could do from 7:00 am to 11:00 pm, when you relented and lay naked on a cool sheet to try and sleep. But July 5th was different. Your mom woke me up around 5:30 or so and said it was time, so I got on the phone and called the midwife and when I met her outside it was clear and cool and dry. A warm breeze came from the general direction of the river, and the colors of the sky and grass and the pond next door lost their usual dull haze and shone with warmth and sparkling highlights.

Within an hour, your mom was surrounded by not just the midwife, but her assistant, a doula, and Janet, who was ostensibly there for my moral support but of course more focused on the person in need. Your mom labored in and out of the house all morning, then decided she wanted to give birth outside, which meant in an ordinary plastic lounge chair situated under a spruce tree. Her view was of the horse pasture next door, and the geese on the pond, and when she went into delivery, the horses gather round and peeked over the wire fencing, nickering their support, while Spalding fretted about as well, swishing his bushy tail and knowing not to look for attention.
 
You were born around 4:30, and by 6:00 we had you wrapped in blankets and safely tucked into an empty beer case, as it was the perfect size and offered two handles for safe carrying. I buried the placenta out by the barn. When, by 6:30 everyone had left and your mother was sleeping upstairs, I placed you on the dining room table, like I would a pile of books, and stood amazed at the silence and the absolute ordinariness of the miracle that had just taken place. Four strong, focused women had gathered and helped your mother do what women have been able to do for thousands of years, which is to give birth without medication, without interference from people whose bodies could not intuitively understand the sensations accompanying childbirth. And when it was over, they washed up and went home, trusting completely that we, your parents, could take it from there. The jury is still out, I suppose. But for that moment anyway, with your mom asleep and your brother at his grandparents’, it was just you and me and the silence. I took you in your box out onto the porch steps to watch the sunset. I placed you on my left and pet Spalding on my right and waited for the first star to appear.
 
As for tales from my twenty-first year, I must say I don’t remember much. I know my birthday passed with minimal celebration. I was in the spring semester of my second year of college, having taken, as you have, a year off, and was living with three other guys with whom I had little in common. It was a suite: two bedrooms, a common area and a common bathroom for four. The two in the other room were baseball players, good looking guys who were self-confident and muscular and not particularly academic, while my roommate was a freshman architectural student named Tom Mazza, who looked like a diminutive Ron Howard and the second coming of Opie. I spent most of my time elsewhere, likely primarily at my girlfriend Nancy’s when I could, or a house full of people on Newton Street whom I had befriended. Nancy was my first real love, a kind of obsessive relationship which, when it was working, was a delirious high, and when it wasn’t - which was most of the time - left me feeling sad and empty and unable to concentrate. When my birthday rolled around it was not working, and she was spending most of her time at the theater, where she majored in drama. (No, not that kind, though maybe so, looking back on it.) Anyway, she said she realized the importance of turning twenty-one, so she stopped by to drop off a present for me, which turned out to be an unwrapped flannel shirt and a bottle of tequila. I kept the shirt and gave the bottle to the baseball players.
 
The rest of that year, as I said, I don’t remember much. Probably my best year around that time was when I was twenty-three and spent a summer traveling through Europe. I was part of a graduate program in architecture, so a group of maybe ten or twelve of us went to study European architecture and expose ourselves to some non-American culture, which is to say, culture. We spent four weeks in Rome, one each in Florence, the hill towns of Perugia and Todi and one in Venice. We then had ten days off, which a friend and I used to travel to Vienna, Munich, Salzburg, and the length of Switzerland before re-joining the group in Arles. The second half of the program was in Barcelona, where we took side trips to Sitges, the Pyrenees, Madrid, Cordoba, Granada and Seville.
 
Once the program was over, Gee and I made our way slowly up to Paris before parting ways, and I continued on to Normandy, then Brussels and Amsterdam before coming back to the States.
 
That was a good summer; I was happy then. The traveling was easy as the school made all the arrangements, and still cheap. I think we paid about $5/night for a decent hotel in Rome, and I remember being shocked at having to pay a full $15/night in Venice. But as we were in school, we got taken through these places with professors of architecture as our tour guides, who offered not just background and insight into what we were seeing but were often able to get us into places that were closed to the average tourist. I made good friends on the trip and was generally care-free. Though we did have to work, which did set in some resistance among us with having to spend time in a studio drawing up designs when outside the city of Rome beckoned, the biggest worry we had was where to eat or how to get clothes washed. Generally speaking, I’d have to say I enjoyed the first half of my twenties, though I have no idea what happened to Nancy or the flannel shirt.
 
You also asked about books. You already know my favorite book, which is the Tao Te Ching, and I can’t recommend it enough as both guide and solace. But let me consider fiction for a moment: I think at that time I got into reading Russian novels for a while: Crime and Punishment, The Brothers Karamazov, The Idiot, The Gulag Archipelago. Never read War and Peace, but I did enjoy Anna Karenina. Also, Babbitt by Sinclair Lewis, and the USA trilogy by John dos Passos. I know he’s not fashionable now because he was sexist to the point of misogyny, but I read a lot of Henry Miller. I enjoyed being able to follow someone else’s thought train, and the ultimately positive outlook he offered. Catch-22 by Heller and The Naked and the Dead by Mailer are a couple of great books offering insight into war, which is to say, they are great anti-war books. 
 
All white, male authors, I have to admit, though I branched out later. And while I know you did not ask me specifically for books I was reading when I was your age, being able to say “here is this one favorite book of all time” would be impossible. As with most things, it depends where you are in your life. The first time I picked up Kerouac’s On the Road, I hated it. Couldn’t not get past the first couple of pages. When I picked it up again a few years later, I read it straight through in one sitting. 
 
And of course, perspectives change in retrospect as well, as with Hemingway or Miller - though it does not and cannot take away the pleasure I had in reading each of them at the time. The one author I guess I can offer up that has always remained relevant and enjoyable is Joyce, especially his two accessible books, Dubliners and Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. In the end, I guess I would recommend that last one to you. I think you would like it. 
 
Cash the enclosed check and celebrate. We don’t do maturation ceremonies in our culture, so I trust you can come up with one of your own. Just keep it safe, if not entirely sane.
 
Love you immensely,
 
Dad


What I did not tell him was that during that summer in Europe I had an affair with a woman which colors the whole trip with happy memories for me. She was from Norway and she was in her early thirties, married, with a son who was maybe seven at the time. I guess she wanted a break from that routine, and when she signed up for the trip, I think she was ready for a fling. Lucky for me, because for some reason we just clicked. We genuinely enjoyed one another’s company and I felt an ease around her that I am still envious of today. I don’t remember much about the sex except that it was sweet and gentle and warm - more due to her patience and wisdom I would guess than anything on my part. She said we could have sex and sleep together, but we could not kiss, as that was something she would keep in reserve for her husband. Her way, I think, of cordoning off summer fun from what was real. We had no expectations of one another, knowing that at the end of the trip this would be over, and I remember a great deal of tenderness and genuine affection. Our last night together she brought my mouth to hers and they remained together for the next several hours while we made love into the early morning. She remains, in my heart, a dear friend.

I did not include this in my letter to Max because it seemed too private to share with my son. So here I am, sharing it with the world. 

About a month ago, after Eli and I had shopped at Costco, we filled a couple of empty boxes with the items we had bought then brought everything out to the car. Eli started to take the individual items out of the boxes and load them into the trunk. Then he watched me simply lift an entire box of items out of the cart and slip that into the trunk. “Oh, that’s a good idea,” he said. Then, after a short beat, he said, “Sometimes I think it’s a wonder they ever let me into the magnet program.”

Eli, I feel like that all the time. 

