---
layout: post
title: Yangshuo
---
My good friend Rolf’s daughter, Anna, is dead. I got a text from Janette as soon as I awoke this morning, saying she had died in a car crash a few days ago. After a brief WeChat conversation, I learned that she was returning home from a recording session early in the morning when her car hit a tree. That’s all I know right now.

I sent a text to Rolf in Germany, telling him by heart is breaking for him. He and Anna’s mother divorced several years ago, and Anna was their only child. Not an easy one to raise, from what I gather. Back before I knew them, apparently she was a difficult teen: rebellious and into drugs, they had her in a program and eventually got her through high school. From there she enrolled in a small college down south but dropped out after a semester. But in the past few years, she had moved to the west coast and was doing well for herself. Bought some land, was playing music, had learned how to butcher. Such a complete tragedy, and imagining their pain and sense of loss puts me into a deep melancholia. I hug Sam and Max, and it helps. 

This hangs over me as we leave Hong Kong and make our way through many levels of security and filling of forms to get into the PRC, which includes the collecting of our fingerprints and facial images. The lines are surprisingly short, but we did not anticipate so many procedures and by the time we get through them we are running for the train. It slides out of the station less than a minute after we settle into our seats.

We glide through the countryside, hundreds of mid-rise apartment building clustered on the landscape. In order to accommodate so many people it seems, one building is never enough, so they go up in groups of six, eight or even twenty, all identical and placed tightly together. Small balconies break up the facades and are festooned with people’s laundry. When it’s accessible, the earth is lush and green. As we get away from the urban areas, our train speeds by lonely farms, a few farmers tending their rice crops in shallow water. Steel towers string high-tensile electrical wire as though it were decoration, while new highways and construction cranes pop up with surprising regularity. Inside the train, military propaganda plays on the monitors and a crisply uniformed attendant rolls a cart down the aisle, selling fresh fruit bowls.

The trains are beautiful: clean, comfortable and incredibly smooth. The LED readout at the end of the car tells me we are traveling at 247 km/h and it’s barely noticeable. I settle into my seat and look out at the landscape. The heat and the jet lag are getting to me: I’ve not slept for more than a few hours at any stretch for several days now. I put meditation music on my headphones and nod off for what seems like ten minutes.

When I awake, the landscape has turned into the conic hills and steep valleys one sees in Chinese paintings, and by the time we arrive at Yangshuo, I feel I am in a fantasy land. Sam hails us a DeeDee, China’s version of Uber, for the hour’s ride to the hotel. We ride along the only road into town, a two-lane affair filled with trucks, busses, mopeds, bicycles, pedestrians and three-wheeled rickshaws, none of which seem to care too much about traffic laws. We pass people perilously, and at one point are ourselves passed by a tourist bus. It’s basically a free for all, with people heading into oncoming traffic if that gets them to where they want to go, trusting people will slow and miss them. Amazingly, there are no accidents during our drive. They have, apparently, worked out their own system.

After a struggle through traffic, we are let off on the main drag and then climb through a series of twisting alleys, ascending a hill to our hotel, then climb five flights of stairs to our room. We are greeted by an outdoor area with a bar top and stools overlooking the valley and the green and granite kearns immediately behind the town. It has an amusement park vibe, complete with a golden, lighted pagoda on the top of one of the hills and the sounds of music and crowds. I lament having to go into town, as tired as I am, to find something to eat.

“No Dad,” Sam says. “I got this.”

He gets on his phone and is busy punching symbols for a few minutes and in about a half hour or less, a young man shows up with five nicely wrapped cartons of noodles and a six-pack of beer.

‘Fifty cents to deliver,” Sam says, and smiles. 

We sit and eat noodles and drink a few beers together and I feel Eli’s absence more acutely with the news about Anna still circling, like a vulture, around my heart. 

I fall asleep at 10:00 but wake a couple of hours later and sit outside. The town’s lights reflect off the white granite of the hills, with greenery as black as the night, leaving spectral walls and a floating pagoda. Hovering over the valley, a haze slips its fingers here and there, touching me with the sticky humidity which saps me of any sense of identity. It adds to the fantasy quality of the town I am looking down upon, and I want it to be mystical, but this China is not like that. There’s a building with tiled roofs and turned up eaves in the center of town, but it sports a Starbucks logo and stands beside the McDonald’s. But as I sit and let myself look more closely, I see rooftops with caged birds and open fire pits, bricks held together with twine, televisions shining through bamboo screens.

I sit and watch lights turn off, one by one. My kids are wonderful people, and they are different from what I imagined they would be. So is China. And while I have learned that life will always bring you surprises, I never would have considered today’s news to be possible, and I suppose that’s the point, isn’t it? Change happens, death comes, nations evolve. I am, sitting in this spot, overwhelmed by it all. 

In town, I see the silhouette of a woman in a doorway. She stands straight and erect, an arm pushed up against the door jamb, one foot kicking out languidly. She reaches with her other hand and turns out the lights, vanishing into the darkness. 
