---
layout: post
title:  Monsters Under the Bed
---
I awake in this hotel, feeling stuffy and swollen and it’s 9:00 - I have slept nine hours. Sam sleeps in the other bed. It is strange and comforting and surprisingly easy to share a room with him. I think about how he should not, in all rational judgement, even be here at all.

It was a June just a few years back and it was the heavy part of the night, when dreams move your limbs and excite your mind and the call had words in it like accident and neurosurgeon and here is the number and why have you not been picking up and I listened and I spoke into the tiny phone that could not even fill my hand and then I called across a continent and heard more words like brain and injuries and surgery and incomprehensible nonsense and surgery again, a spot on the top of his brain and a steel plate or maybe plates in his arm (but didn’t he already have plates? Why hadn’t the steel protected him?) and I took it in until I was full and I wrote things down and the darkness ebbed and became day and I told his mother to go, go to San Francisco and be with your son and I will wait here and it dawned on me that it would be days now, a week or more before I saw him and I will come out and be with him when you leave and I will take him home, but you go now he needs his mother and I talked to his friends who were with him and listened to them describe how they are crossing the street when a car going forty maybe fifty hits Sam while he is in the crosswalk, young and precious and blue eyes shining with wonder and fear at the very moment when he has the green light and a vampire jumps from the underworld and strikes our child and lifts him fifteen feet into the air and across the intersection seventy-five, eighty feet like a leaf drifting in a storm like an infant thrown from a window and leaves him there, a heavy sack on the asphalt and flies chased by the police but never caught but leaving me with a hole where my breath escapes, and an angel, a white van, the vehicle of working people and angels, stops there in the intersection and bares his chest, roaring, daring anyone to cross and saves my son from more abuse, my heavy sack on the asphalt the world I owe this man and I can hear the fear and the excitement in the voices of his friends never, not once, not in the darkness or the day or when my breath is still gone did it cross my mind that he would not be alright, that he would heal and grow strong and the brain, the brain, the brain, it keeps coming back to scare me that dark spot on the cat-scan but I simply wait for the sun in the window to hear he will be fine and nothing else my eyes shut tight and then I watch the news, his local news, on my laptop screen the reporter is standing at Eighth and Mission, red lights in the background and she says, in the earlier time, before I am sitting here knowing he will be fine that one young man has been taken to the emergency room where his condition is unknown and I weep, my shoulders bobbing up and down in time and space, how close what was had come to what might have been, and peering into the circle of grief from that small distance, standing safe upon my own circle of solid ground, of okay-ness, the release like being startled almost, like laughter, overwhelming and I know every statistic has a mother and father, I know now of their brothers and sisters and aunts and friends and the people who tried to save them, their angels in their white vans, and all that heavy grief with one life lost, just one, how his brothers’ lives almost changed and how anyone he ever fell in love with, how their lives would be poorer and my unshakeable faith that he was fine saw and felt in the dramatic tones of that reporter just how close my faith had been to being wrong. I breathe. I am awake.

And when I did see him, he was gaunt. He looked like death had entered him, then left for reasons unknown. Death had visited, had decided not to stay, had taken with him the warm energy of my son. But not his humor - that part of him stayed. I witnessed a real gratitude in him as he looked around and took pleasure in hospital food, his gown, the small lights glowing. He took it all on so cheerfully, without self-pity and without anger, and I knew I had been right, that whatever it was I believed in was here within him and had simply called to let me know, had reached into my dream and said, it will be alright. His brain needed rest, his doctor said, so we took him home to do nothing: no television, no reading, no intellectual activity of any kind and that was hard and then he returned to school and never complained and struggled at times and learned Chinese and how to speak to machines and in that way brought down the vampire, who slipped back into darkness and lies there still.

A reporter came to interview him in his hospital bed and the paper was online and the comment section filled up with love from wonderful people none of us knew. And I too was grateful in that moment, grateful to the people of that city, the city where I have buried one son and stole another one back. And now, here we are in Kunming, where he sleeps a few feet away, breathing easily while I peck away at this keyboard, marveling at the soft click of the keys and the music of his breathing. Sleep as long as you like, Sam. We have all the time in the world.
