---
layout: post
title: Kids
---
#### June 21

The solstice; first day of summer in the northern hemisphere. Here in Maryland it is a gorgeous day: 73 degrees with fast moving clouds overhead, and a summer breeze that is pushing the trees around out my back window. I’ve got our windows cranked wide open to the back yard. We’re lucky here in that our house backs up to a hill leading to a park, so the trees there start higher and end a good 80 or 90 feet above us. They’re home to all kinds of birds, including cardinals, orioles, jays, swifts, woodpeckers, the occasional owl and once, when a winter storm drove her south in search of food, a beautiful Cooper’s hawk that graced us with her regal presence for a few days.

In addition to birds we’ve seen plenty of deer (they actually walk the street on the other side of our house, with their dainty legs and soft eyes looking like shy, Lyme-disease carrying hookers, daring you to look away), fox and - though I didn't see it and it was actually a couple of miles from here - black bear.

The breeze is strong enough that it’s creating small whirlwinds that are carrying leaves up and away, a fairly glorious sight after several days of heavy, humid air. The cats prowl the house, a little unsettled by the weather and missing Eli, gone now almost a week. They look to me for solace, but I have less time and inclination to pet and indulge them.

A WeChat with Eli:
> How are you? Hanging in there? Enjoying yourself yet?
> Yeah! Everyone at the camp is is super great
> I’m not sure how it’s going to be when campers actually get here though
> I’m a bit scared of it
> But I’ll have a co counselor so it should be ok
> You will be just fine. Remember, they are just kids.

My response was inspired by my own experience. The first year I started teaching we spent a week in faculty meetings beforehand and, as we always do, discussed each of the kids individually - what issues they brought, how best to respond and support them. After two afternoons of listening to returning teachers’ frustrations and horror stories of mis-and-just-plain-outlandish-behavior, my anxiety was pretty high. But on the first day I stood outside my classroom and watched them all file by in the hall, noting the round faces, the utter cool not quite able to conceal the anxiety, carefully not acknowledging the new teacher, the smirks. I turned to my principal who walked up beside me and I said, “They’re just kids!” 

“Yes,” he said. “It’s a good thing to keep in mind.”

And while I have issues with my use of the word “just,” as it implies something less than, it is a good attitude for a new teacher to have. It’s probably best exemplified in the film, “Good Will Hunting,” when Robin Williams sits with Matt Damon on the park bench and explains why his overwhelming intellect and cynicism will no longer get to him, and it boils down to the fact that experience trumps all, and the only way to get that is to age. To let time pass. It’s a consoling thought, which has some truth to it, though I don’t think it’s the panacea we aging people might hope for, especially in the face of trends, forces and attitudes we simply cannot fathom. The hope is, such as with the consternations over pronouns, that while we may not be able to understand it fully, we can have empathy for the passion and the strive for justice and the simple idealism in the face of our human experience which simply refuses to provide us with satisfying answers.

Kids, I believe, call us back from our weariness. Their naivete and idealism are the perfect balance to our - I should say “my” - weary caution. It’s easy to let go of hope; much more difficult to release the thousands of small, daily despairs that we accumulate over a lifetime. They build up on ius like a skin’s patina. Kids are a refreshing splash of a cleansing shower.

Which leads me to think that maybe I can just sit here and revel in this glorious day. Worry less about productivity and more about just being. Thanks, kids. 
