---
layout: post
title: Flights of Fancy
---
At the airport this morning, about 4:30, a plane arrives and discharges nothing but young men and women in camouflage. All of them very serious, deadly quiet. One young woman is carrying a big furry bunny, which I assume is for her child - she has an air of worry about her - but it looks so wonderfully fun and innocent in the middle of all that potential for violence.

There’s an elderly gentleman at my gate. He’s wearing a dress shirt, shorts, knee-high compression socks, with visible garters and dress shoes. His body has the shape of the elderly: stick-thin legs giving rise to a ballooned paunch, fallen chest and a taffy head, with pulled ears and a stretch nose. The socks and garters – along with his marbled eyes - say “I give zero fucks” in a clear and definitive manner. It occurs to me that rather than being worthy of ridicule, this guy has it made because he truly does not care about what anyone thinks. He’s reached the pinnacle of his game, this man. 

The plan is to stay awake until noon, then sleep until eight. I expect this plan to fail miserably, but I’m drinking black coffee on the flight to Toronto just to help it out. I got a free bump up to business class, which is great for the extra room and the fact that the coffee comes in a ceramic mug. Money is everything in this world: it gets you special treatment in the eyes of the law, extra care wherever you go. It gets ugly men beautiful women and beautiful women the freedom to be alone. What it can’t buy, as I look down upon the nascent morning, with the mist following the sinuous curves of the Susquehanna River and clouds spreading like algae upon water, is imagination. Who needs to imagine a better world when you can fly in a Gulfstream to relax on your own island?

There are exceptions of course, such as Bill Gates and Richard Branson and Elon Musk. Many others, I’m sure, who we don’t hear about, including many who are not white men. But the amount of wealth in the world is astonishing (and holds no candle to the amount of poverty, of course) and turns those who have it conservative and protectionary. I mean, I’m given a wider seat and a real cup and I’m already dreading going back to economy.

+

Which is where I am now, on the long flight to Hong Kong. Two people in, I’m next to the window, which does me little good since I look out over the widest and longest airplane wing I’ve ever seen. I’m on a Boeing 787 Dreamliner, that plane of exploding battery fame. And I have to say it’s not a bad way to fly. Thank goodness for state-subsidized airlines: I’ve got more leg room on this Air Canada flight than I almost know what to do with. Last year when we flew to the Azores on, naturally, Air Azores, my knees rubbed the plastic seat back in front of me. They had the best terminal coming back though, with a bar and a benign attitude towards people walking around the waiting area waving their beers at one another.

Fifteen hours to go. I watch the little plane on the map in front of me crawl northward of the Great Lakes. It’s -45 Celsius outside, and we’re heading toward the Hudson Bay, passing over or near places with names such as Moosonee, Chibougamau and Kapuskasing. A few French names as well, such as Val-d’Or and Poste-de-la-Baleine. What I think about when I imagine these places is that there are likely a lot of very large, black flies there. 

I’m quite grateful to be on this trip. Of all the non-Chinese people who have ever lived, I’m assuming a very small percentage have ever been able to visit that nation, and I am about to be part of those privileged few. The fact that I have the money and time to get on this piece of bleeding-edged technology and get there within twenty-four hours is nothing short of amazing. Five hundred years ago, it took access to kings to be able to finance such a trip; now I’m doing it on an educator’s salary. It took years as well, and you risked your life to make the passage. (Okay, so some things remain the same.) I imagine that, should we be able to not kill one another, or the environment which supports us, a few hundred years from now such a trip will seem as archaic as Magaellen’s does to us. Will any of my descendants make such a trip? Do I even care?

Seriously: I love my kids to death. If they decide to have kids, and actually have them before I die, I’m sure I will love them as well. And then I will die, and so how much do I truly care about their kids’ kids? I can’t imagine what they might even look like, given that there’s a good chance they will be biracial - though with which other race I have no idea. And then a couple of generations beyond that? I can only care in the abstract it seems. I do hope there is a world for them to enjoy, and all the good things in it: the spare and empty landscapes, spectacular sunrises, goofy dogs, warm and generous people. But do I care even if some of them are my direct descendants? I look in my heart and it’s mum on the subject.

+

We are above the North Pole. Slightly east of it, judging by the small planet on the screen in front of me, but close enough to count within the circumference of my life’s experiences. The outside air temperature is -53 degrees Celsius. The sun is shining. I take my phone out of my pocket, turn it on, and take a photo of the display, a digital souvenir of this event. 

I’m not certain why I find this momentous, my relative location in three dimensional space, except to be able to say, “I was there.” Slightly more than Everest high above the Arctic, and I sit here in my stocking feet, an inflatable pillow supporting my neck. I could be watching “Crazy Rich Asians” on the monitor if I so chose, so it’s not as though I’m in any way affected by these surroundings; I’d love to slide open the window shade to get a small glimpse of it, but I’m worried that the blinding light would upset those people around me.

This thing about geographical location is baffling to me. A friend once described his trip to the Four Corners area out west, and his delight that his son was able to have one limb in each of four states. When I was twenty-something, some friends rented a boat to sail on the San Francisco Bay, and allowed me the honor of piloting while we slipped beneath the Golden Gate Bridge. I looked up into the girders as they passed overhead and felt everything I probably should have about the West and what it represents to the young, the expansive sense of something new and one’s own, and how now I was breaking even that barrier, leaving it behind if only for the forty-five minutes it took us to tack back into the bay again. I was giddy and free and full of myself in a way that I’ve never been any other time.

Some locations have real consequences. You can bet sums of money on card games on a boat 14.9 miles from shore and be breaking the law. Move just a tenth of a mile further out, and you can freely and lawfully gamble away your family’s fortune. 

And sometimes it truly matters. Being born in El Paso or just down the road in Juarez can have real consequence to your fate in life. This seems unjust to me, but people say, well, we can’t accommodate everyone. Who is the “we” that decided this? There’s a wonderful scene in Doctor Zhivago in which he returns to his family home to find the proletariat have taken over and moved themselves - and all their relatives, it would seem – into his family’s home. He takes a minute to take all of this in and says, “This is better, more just.” But of course he doesn’t believe a word of it. What he really feels is that they’ve taken over his beautiful childhood home and brought his family down to their level of misery, but he can’t say anything because it is the “will of the people.” I’m totally that guy: I talk about the absurdities of political borders, but how much of my comfort would I be willing to share? I don’t feel all that bad though: Janette and I may own 14 bedrooms across four properties, but we have thirteen people living in them. Plus four cats and two dogs.

+

The mind wanders on a seventeen hour flight, in case you couldn’t tell. My plan is failing, as spectacularly as I thought it would. I stayed up to eat, then settled in to read about a woman trying to communicate with octopuses, and still was unable to sleep. Finally, I must have drifted off for a few minutes, because I became aware that I was thinking, “If only I, who have so many shirts,” and the parallel thought that if I erased the word “who” and everything that came after it, I would have no self, no awareness of what or who I was and would, for all intents and purposes, cease to exist.

+

I wake from a non-slumber, turn on the screen and check to see where we are. Having traveled all of Canada - the world’s second largest country in terms of size - plus the entire Arctic Ocean, we’re about halfway there. And, entering Russian airspace - a first for me. (I’m going to assume that for the next four weeks, everything is a first for me.) Further south lies Mongolia, and, somewhere east of there, the Korean Peninsula.

I’m hoping the North Koreans don’t decide to shoot off any missiles while we’re in the neighborhood. I’m hoping no Russian pilot decides to get frisky or just plain crazy. I’m thinking that I would never know. A missile fired from a Russian MiG would come from over the horizon at many Mach’s per hour, slamming into our fuselage and causing an explosion that I might see for a fraction of a second before losing consciousness. The wreckage from our plane would drop some 30,000 feet and scatter over many square miles of Siberian permafrost. What would survive such an explosion and fall? Our bodies are so soft and fragile. What bits of luggage would investigators find? How many cell phones or tacky souvenirs? How many wedding rings?

As I play this through in my mind, it becomes more and more real, to the point that it’s not just some idle anxiety bubbling up in macabre fashion, but a real portent of something that will happen, and it’s just a matter of at which second. My fear is real and growing, and I entertain the possibility that we create our own reality and so I am somehow, in some small percentage, increasing the likelihood of this horror simply by thinking about it. I stop: why am I doing this to myself? A few deep breaths, a reminder that I’m here in my cozy little seat, and there’s nothing I can do about anything. Especially not sleep, not now.

+

I finally do manage to sleep some and awake to our third meal of the flight. I don’t know why I’m hungry; all I’ve done is sit. Somewhere along the line I lost my sleep mask, and I’m squirming in my seat trying to locate it. I feel sorry for the people next to me, a Chinese woman and, I believe, her aunt. I toss and turn when I sleep, usually scattering covers hither and pillows yon, not to mention a pretty audible case of apnea. I have no idea what I was like just now, asleep, but I’ve had to crawl over them twice to go to the bathroom, and after breakfast with coffee, likely will again. 

But then I think of the guy in the black compression socks and shorts. Mister Zero Fucks, my new hero.

+

Finally, I get into the city, meet up with Sam, find our hotel, and take the ferry over to Hong Kong island, where we walk to a Sikh temple. It’s hotter than DC here, or at least feels that way due to the increased humidity, which I did not think was possible, so by the time we cover the ten or so blocks to get there, I am exhausted and soaked with sweat. We exchange our shoes for head coverings and sit on the floor of a blessedly air-conditioned room with wall-to-wall carpeting and little else, save an altar. A man chants from Punjabi script, and a few people sit here and there, some listening, some apparently not. It’s a nice break to cool down, get some space around me and zone out to language I do not understand. 

There is a young couple with a baby sitting a few yards from us. The baby crawls off to something more interesting and the dad puts aside his cell phone, gets up and patiently brings the baby back to where his wife is. After three or four times of this, he looks at his wife and points with his chin at the baby, back at whatever it is that calls to him. She stands up to go get him, but instead of simply picking him up, she waves to him and does a little dance. His eyes light, he smiles, he shakes his shoulders back at her. Only now that he’s fully engaged does she pick him up.

Moms and dads, I think. In any culture.

Not long after, the chanting stops and most people get up to go. “I guess it’s over?” I say to Sam.

“It’s six o’clock,” he replies.

“So Sikhs cease at six?”

“Dad,” he moans. “You’re embarrassing me.”

I’m a dad. That is my calling, in any culture.
