---
layout: post
title:  Attention
---
I’m packing up my office, trying to get it ready to move up to PA. Today I started the process of going through paper files, weeding out what I can so I don’t have to haul pounds of the stuff, only to throw it out at the other end. 

After Wendy died, I took some of her files: folders with the kids’ names on them, and one she had for our separation papers, the divorce and the subsequent renegotiation. Not sure why I took them. If I am honest, it was some part curiosity, some part a sense of wanting to keep that which passed between her and me from being seen by anyone else. In the three years since, I’ve not looked at them until this morning.

I found her birth certificate and her student ID from the University of Wisconsin – Madison, which depicted her round face with a short haircut and looking shockingly young. I flipped through some other legal stuff, including our marriage certificate, and came to a couple of handwritten letters. They were undated and had no greeting, but a quick scan made it clear that she had written them to me and, obviously, had never sent.

The first had been written early on in our relationship, as it was mostly about her political views and her recent experience protesting the First Gulf War. That would put it around 1990, right after we met and before we moved back to Maryland. The second was penned early in the marriage, because she mentions going out with a friend who we only saw early on, maybe 1993 or 1994.

In it she expresses her anger at and frustration with me. She also talks about missing me, and whatever connection we had She describes emotions which are familiar to anyone in a longer-term relationship: a combination of blame and self-recrimination. Toward the end she declares that she is just fine with who she is, but it doesn’t really come across as convincing. She follows this up with her conviction that the relationship will not last.

We met when we found ourselves to be the only two employees in a small design firm in San Francisco, and when, a couple years later we felt that the city and us had fought each other to a draw, I sold my bike and we drove her car back to the east coast. We stayed over her parent’s garage for a while, then moved to a sterile apartment in Germantown where she cried over the wall-to-wall carpeting and the off-white walls, and I tried to console her with reminders that it was just temporary. I was mildly frustrated with her inability to see beyond the day, and deeply moved by the sensitivity of her spirit. For one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, we bought seven acres out in Poolesville, five miles from the Potomac river and closer to Shepherdstown, West Virginia than to Washington, DC. 

The house was small and unremarkable, with indoor-outdoor carpeting nailed to the wooden floors and an attic filled with rats. We spent the first night on the cold floor in sleeping bags and the next day wandering around the place, peering into the old barn and the chicken coop, wondering what we had just done. The outbuildings were dangerously neglected, the pastures overrun by wild rose and thistle. The smaller one in the front sported a 1970 Chevy Chevelle, its drive shaft stowed securely in the trunk.

We set to work razing the buildings and building a new barn, installed fencing around the pastures and bought three lambs from a woman across town. When those had grown, we rented a ram and delivered more lambs in the cool early spring evenings, and sat watching geese splash down on our neighbor’s pond. When we moved into a trailer so we could finally begin work on the house itself, she found herself pregnant with Sam and twenty-seven months later, Max came along. The renovated house was warm and cheery and filled with light, as well as two babies, a dog named Spalding and a cat named Joyce. And in that entire time, she held fast to her belief that it would not last, so she kept her secrets safe within her and turned her attention from her husband to her children.

I don’t blame her at all. Over the course of my entire life, I have consistently failed to realize that people love me, which has led to what I can only call “a presentation of indifference.” I am not an easy person to love nor to live with. So we each, gradually over the course of the years, slowly gave up trying and it is when you stop trying that things, as they say, fall apart.

The letters, in my hands, felt like redemption and accusation, evidence of both guilt and innocence on my part and on hers. I wished that she had given them to me; wished that we had tried a little longer. I wished that we each had not kept so much from one another.

I heard once – and I’ve no way to know if this is true or not – that in a traditional Japanese marriage, when the wife is feeling hurt of neglected, she lets her husband know by serving him his tea cold. The husband, in turn, must pay attention to see where his wife is hurting, what he has done, or failed to do, though it is in the act of turning his attention to her that the actual healing happens because it is our attention, after all, that is our most precious gift to give.

My kids will all soon be here for five weeks or so, and they will be bringing Wendy’s ghost with them. She will be here, in my house, loving me and accusing me and stubbornly ignoring me while she sits smoking, her eyes on the horizon. I’ve got about ten days to figure out how to welcome her. I’ve got about ten days to figure out how to give her my attention.
