---
layout: post
title: Step-Parenting
---

On the train from Philly to DC. Left my truck up there so that when Janette and I ride our motorcycles up next Tuesday, I’ll have the truck to take back. Janette spends about 5 days out of 7 up there, building her practice and winding down her practice in DC. I spent the 3 day conference wrestling with the fact that next year will be my last at Nora and will be looking for a job once I move up to PA permanently. I haven’t really looked for a job in 25 years. 

Angelica lives up there full time, so she and Janette spend a lot of time together. Janette’s family is very different from mine, and our getting married 10 years ago was a huge mistake in terms of trying to mesh together our two families. Angelica is her youngest, and he’s 26, making her 3 years older than Sam, my oldest. More importantly though, the dynamic between her and her children is very different than it is between my kids and me, and when we first came together we were full of judgement of each other’s parenting style, and even more full of incomprehension, puzzlement and defensiveness. And with us taking that stance toward one another, the kids had no chance. It was a difficult time, and we survived, I think, through some part patience and some part resignation. Seventy-five percent of third marriages fail, and I think in our case neither one of us wanted to go through that again, so we kept our heads down and waited. My kids survived in part because they spent half their time at their mom’s house, and when they were with me, Janette and her kids pretty much ignored them. That hurt tremendously, but much more so me than my kids, so I did my best to swallow it. Don’t think I did such a good job.

Angelica was angry at her mom because she had been expecting a few years with just the two of them, now that her older siblings were out of the house. But then with nearly no warning, I moved in with my three kids, and suddenly she had to share with three younger boys with whom she had nothing in common. After about a year or so, I think, she and her mom began a long process of reconciliation, and I was pretty much locked out, consigned to Enemy Number One role, someone the two of them could resent in common. Not happy times.

But then Angelica went away to college, and while there were setbacks during December and summers, eventually things got better. She moved to Europe and earned her Master’s degree, and when she came back, moved into the house we bought up in West Chester in order to look for a job. She is now planning to move into her own apartment in Philly central city area, just in time for me to start spending four nights a week up there. After ten years, we get along fine. I don’t think we’ll ever really talk about all that passed between us and I don’t think it’s necessary, but it’s impossible to erase the difficulty Janette and I had in those years.

Some of our confusion, I have no doubt, comes from the unanswerable question, “What is the role of the step-parent?” Her kids were basically raised.  Even if they had no dad - which they did and still do - it would not be my position to parent them. I was strictly their mom’s husband, and as such, the only purpose I seemed to serve to them was to take her attention away from them. And her attention to them had been complete and unwavering, as far as I can tell. 

My kids were younger, but they had an active mom who they loved and who loved them. Janette struggled with how she fit in, especially since Wendy refused to speak with her. (To clarify, she refused to speak to me either, or Janette’s kids: it was a blanket kind of thing.) I heard stories of families who blended so completely they forgot who was blood-related; and I heard, more often, of families who never got along, families where when the kids came home to visit, the step-parent would leave and take their own mini-vacation. We came somewhere in between, though there were times when we ignored one another’s children. 
