---
layout: post
title:  Lessons
---
My phone wakes me up but it is not the alarm I set. It’s Eli, and he wants to know exactly what time our train is. This can’t be good, I think, and I’m right.  Apparently Raven has had too much to drink - or, as Eli puts it, he “has let her have too much to drink” - and he wants to take a Didi with her to make sure she gets on her train okay. We do some math with the clock and figure it’s okay, as he can then take another Didi straight from Guillermo North station to Yangshuo station and meet us there.

He’s a sweet kid.

I sit up to a serious stitch in my side and begin to wonder about appendices and emergency surgery in China. Clearly, it’s time for us to get out of Yangshuo.

+

Every morning I go to the same place for coffee. It’s down the 138 steps from our hotel room to the alley level and is tucked inside another alley, beneath a hostel that seems popular with other westerners. I’ve seen Germans and French and Australians, a couple of Italians and one guy I think was likely from the former Eastern Bloc. They play American music and the menu over the bar offers both espresso and Johnnie Walker. The woman who runs it is very cheery, very sweet - she brings me my coffee without my having to ask for it, and this small routine anchors me within a time without structure. It’s an additional small comfort to be able to speak English and get what I want: coffee and a comfortable couch with an overhead fan and time to sit and think.  

So I am here now trying to figure out what is going on with Eli and Raven. Like the Italian mom I met a few days ago, I am parenting via text, a process I’ve gotten used to over the years. While Diana Krall sings “Cry me a River,” on the overhead speakers, I slowly piece together a picture of a young woman who is not at all lucid, and my less-than-practical son trying to figure out the logistics of getting her to where she needs to be. He doesn’t think they will make it in time, but has no idea when that time is. Her ticket is electronic, no wait, maybe not, and she has to take this one train to catch a flight to some place, but where that is and when remains unknown. This takes place in slow steps, information - or the revelation that such information is unknown - trickling in at sporadic intervals. For some reason though, this generation prefers this and does not talk on the phone. And, if I’m honest, so do I. I dislike talking on the phone. Conversations are difficult for me without the person’s face there to guide me along, and while text conversations also do not provide this, they have the benefit, like letter writing, of replying only after I have given some thought to what I want to say.  

Which I really need right now, as the situation unfolds: they are still on their way to the Guillermo station and will miss her train, and then in all likelihood, her flight. I ask Eli if Raven is a functioning person at this point and he replies, no, not really. So he’s going to have to manage this drunken person and get her a new ticket, which I don’t know is even possible, all with his extremely limited Chinese. Then get himself to Yangshuo station on time. At least the stitch in my side is gone, though I suspect it’s traveling north to my head. 

+

We are leaving Yangshuo and I look out over the landscape which is stunning and singular and in no place unmarred. Everywhere, below the karsts, are unfinished buildings, power lines, cell phone towers, ditches, broken concrete, brick rubble, incomplete roads and drainage pipes, either dumping their water in random places or lying askew and in sections. Our Didi driver has a clear preference for driving in the wrong lane, even when not passing other cars, lorries and unfortunate moped moms. I catch sight of the tell-tale white lens of a Canon photographer, and follow it’s directed gaze to the far horizon, where a pass is clouded in near-charcoal mist. This is why we use telephoto lenses; why we crop and Photoshop, over-saturate and in some cases, drop in new skies to replace the leaden ones of the moment. We are doing to the landscape what we have long done to people, mostly women - changing them into the images we desire, not what we see. This of course, whets our desires, and makes us unhappy with the world we have made, so we seek out new venues and vistas, always on the lookout for something unspoiled we can tread upon.  

We get to the station and find Eli, nothing short of a miracle, frankly. Raven is on a train to the airport and that’s all he can do. With time to kill, we sit in massage chairs - about two bucks for thirty minutes and it doesn’t take long within one for me to surrender to the robot overlords. Seriously, if a chair can make me feel this good, who am I to fight it? If they could just mist me with a concoction of red wine and Aleve, I’d go happily and quietly. 

We queue up for the train, and Eli says to me, “Thanks for helping me out this morning.” This is a direct stroke on my parental pleasure center, and makes me want to weep. “No problem,” I reply.

He says, “We split a bottle of baijiu pretty much fifty-fifty, and it was about five am that I realized that I could hold my liquor and she could not, neither physically nor emotionally.”

“Ah, you have learned well, young Padawan.”

“Well, I’ve never really drank all that much, so if you taught me anything, it was through genetics.”

It’s something, right?

On the train, Eli and Sam are sleeping. I shoot photos out the window compulsively, and snooze when the train enters interminable tunnels. Max is reading “The Old Man and the Sea.” Chinese propaganda plays on the video monitors. I get up to use the bathroom, and stand in the aisle while a woman, squatting a few feet away, stares disgustedly at my stocking feet. The toilet door opens and as I step inside. It’s a squat toilet, with water drops all over the floor and up the sides of the wall. There’s really no place for me to put my feet where I won’t get them wet. I step in, recalling the woman’s look and the thought comes that all social norms are there for good reasons, many of them hygienic. “Don’t go to the bathroom in your bare feet,” I say to Max when I return. He nods sagely.

Getting off the train, we are all happy. “They’ve air-conditioned the entire outdoors!” I say. After the heat of Yangshuo, we have found what we were after: it’s about 68 degrees and dry and beautiful.

The hotel we have booked is labeled a “business” hotel, and I’m not sure what that means until we get into the elevator to find escort service cards all over the floor and free condoms in the room. They are labeled “Supernormal” with the catch phrase, “Let’s travel cheerfully like a bird.” Along with the condoms, there’s free tea, soda, potato chips and full-face gas masks. But the ass gasket for the toilet will cost you an extra fifteen cents.

Dinner is tough to find, buried within a rather depressing shopping mall, but wonderful. We take bowls and fill them with the raw ingredients we want from a refrigerator, hand the bowl to the staff, and ten minutes later our food is brough to us, cooked and spiced and looking almost as wonderful as it tastes. The owners are so taken with Sam that they ask to take his picture. More precisely, his and Max’s - apparently Eli and I don’t really register on the curiosity scale, but neither one of us cares because he’s hungover and I am old. 
