---
layout: post
title:  Not Our Children
---
So it begins - after a wonderful opening day, parents are calling to say their kids won’t make it to school today: they are feeling ill or need emergency appointments or whatever. One poor girl had a panic attack severe enough she landed in the emergency room. These kinds of absences will continue until eventually one or two kids pull out of school altogether. At that point, it’s often a long, expensive process of getting psychological help to the point where they can begin to function again. Our school is such a small, welcoming place, that when they bottom out here, the only place left is often intense, residential treatment. Sometimes that sense of hitting bottom at the tender age of fifteen is what it takes.

Parents, of course, are devastated. Beyond the cost and time and attention it takes to get their child back on the path to independence, there is the guilt: what have I done to my child that they end up like this? 

Two of my kids have this nervous habit of running their hands through their hair repeatedly. I’ve noticed it primarily at the dinner table, where they can get into such a repetitive, and compulsive, motion that it looks as though they are actually pulling it out of their scalp. At those moments I can’t help but wonder what I have done that would cause such anxiety and self-doubt. Or maybe more so, what have I not done.

The Guardian recently ran an article interviewing the parents of murderers. Each of them adopts the same tone: I had no idea. On the surface of it, this sounds reasonable. Who would look at anyone, much less their own child, and predict they would become a mass murderer? But I am certain that each of them must have, in a quiet and still time, looked within themselves for any evidence of what they must have done, or not done, or passed along, to their child which bloomed into such an awful act.

For better or worse, though, are children are not ours. Happy or sad, Federal judge or out of work tattoo artist, it makes no sense for a parent to shine in the reflected glow of their accomplishments, nor to carry the shame of their mistakes. The poet Kahlil Gibran wrote:

Your children are not your children.
They are the sons and the daughters of life's longing for itself. 
They come through you but not from you,
and though they are with you, yet they belong not to you.
You may give them your love but not your thoughts.
For they have their own thoughts.
You may house their bodies but not their souls,
For their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams.
You may strive to be like them, but seek not to make them like you.
For life goes not backward nor tarries with yesterday.
You are the bows from which your children as living arrows are sent forth.
The archer sees the mark upon the path of the infinite, and he bends you with his might that his arrows may go swift and far.
Let your bending in the archer's hand be for gladness; for even as he loves the arrow that flies, so he loves also the bow that is stable.
 
And there you have it: be a stable bow. Sounds so simple.
