---
layout: post
title:  We Are All Getting Tired
---
Anyway.

Spent the morning reading and catching up on this journal and then showed Eli how to wash his clothes in the sink and he spent the next hour washing every single piece of clothing he has. Sam ordered us breakfast in, and I had a sudden dawning of realization. 

“We are so stupid,” I said.

“Why don’t we go to Beijing a day early? There are so many things I want to do there, and we’ve just got it stuck in our heads that we travel there on Friday. Why not go to the Taoist temple this afternoon and then get on the train tomorrow. Can we do that?”

Sam changed our train reservations and I booked us a hotel for the one night and we were in business. Spent the afternoon at the Taoist temple, which was, as the guidebook promised, free of tourists and lovely and quiet and peaceful. Then we found an upscale tea house where we slogged in in our decidedly downscale American way and ordered a pot of tea and played a couple of rounds of pitch. After a dinner of dumplings, we returned to the hotel and found Eli’s clothes dripping wet. Had him squeeze them out and hang them in front of the window.

I told the two of them stories of my bad parenting at dinner. Sam offered his memory of my making him buckle in Max when we all got into the van (I buckling in Eli and Sam doing it for Max to save time.) and he swearing if he ever has kids he will lock them in the car until they learn to buckle themselves in. Apparently, Max would not even try but would simply let Sam do the work. Sam sees this as abuse of him on my part.

My stories included the time Max, probably about three, asking me if it was okay for he and his brothers to be playing in a fountain. I had taken them to the National Mall, down near the Lincoln Memorial, and it was hot, so they started playing in this one fountain, gently at first, but pretty soon soaking themselves and having a good time. I watched on the sidelines, filming some of it with a video camera, when Max, concerned about the rules asked me if it was okay for them to do this. And instead of giving him a straightforward yes, of course honey, you go right ahead and play, I said, “Well, it doesn’t matter since you are already doing it.”

He frowned and repeated his question. To any half-witted parent, this would have been a clear cue to give clear and emphatic permission, but I chose instead to simply repeat my earlier ambiguous statement. Max, seeing no good coming out of this conversation, shrugged and ran off to play. I don’t think he has followed rules since.

At nine, Eli was having trouble falling asleep. “What if I die during the night?” he asked.

“You won’t,” I said.

“How do you know?” he reasonably asked.

Tired, wanting to go to bed myself, I responded. “Because I do. Now go to sleep.”

There have been books written about this very situation.

Over dinner, Eli said, “To be fair, having done counseling work this summer, I found it difficult to be nice to the kids all the time.” This did not make me feel any better.

In the end, we blamed fatigue. It is universal.
