---
layout: post
title:  Options
---
Who knew parenting got harder after they leave?

Here’s a Telegram exchange with Max:
>A couple of things that came in the mail for you.
>Also - you have an insurance policy payment on the Jetta coming up. I said I would pay for it while you were in school. Since you are not in school, it's on you! It's $1800, due on October 21. That's good for 6 months. I'll pay, but you will have to pay me back. :(

Max:
>But my plan is to go back to school next quarter.
>At the moment.

Me:
>Uh.
>At the moment??
>That doesn't sound like a solid, you know, commitment!

Max:
>I'd say I'm committed to staying open to the spontaneous possibilities of an inherently creative and mysterious life while also preparing and putting pieces into place for the apparent trajectory.

So yes, we spoke on the phone, and it’s difficult to know what to do. He’s earnest and idealistic and invincible and confident and wants to pursue some life in the arts, and I know how difficult and confusing that can be. I want to support him and say “Yes! Go for it! Try as hard as you can while you are young and unattached and not weighed down by all the ridiculous things we attach ourselves to!”

And still . . .  he also needs to support himself, and becoming an independent, fully-realized person is even more important than being an artist, even a great one. (And can you ever achieve that without also the first?) So he still owes me $1800.

At the same time, I got this in an email from Eli:
>I like college, but it's not perfect. There are moments when I feel awesome, for sure, but I also have a few consistent feelings that I can't really ignore.

He went on to explain a sense of impermanence, confusion about his future, a gnawing sense of dissatisfaction with academic work, and, if I read accurately between the lines, an impatience with work which took him away from coding.

Then he said, “would love to discuss more and am curious to hear your thoughts, especially with your many years of wisdom.”

“My many years of wisdom.” This just stops me in my tracks, because my kids have stopped being people who ask, “Can I do this?” and have become fellow human beings who are asking me, “Should I do this?” This is a frightening responsibility, much more so than going to work to pay for their clothes and being sure to put food on the table.

How do I answer these kids? How do I tell them that they will make mistakes and suffer and no amount of wisdom can spare them? How do I say, “I don’t know?” How do I encourage their dreams and live with myself should they fall? And worse, how do I say, keep your options open, have a backup plan, pay attention to the things that will get you into trouble, like a lack of insurance or birth control or caution? 

I don’t want to suggest to them that they should pattern their lives after mine, which has been all right, but fairly safe. (Dave Chappell describes his life as an above-ground pool. “It’s all right,” he said. “I mean, it’s a pool.”) As many stupid, impulsive, risky things as I have undertaken in my life, it has been, when considered as a whole, along a fairly predictable path. I’ve always worked, never lived abroad, always did the usual things: wife, kids, mortgage. What Anthony Quinn as Zorba the Greek called, “The whole catastrophe!” I do not regret it, but at one point in my life, I did feel like them - full of idealism and yearning and wanting to create something that would make me famous. And rich. Rich enough where I could stop working. 

So I responded to each of them a bit differently, but generally gave them a long, meandering quasi-philosophical monologue about trade-offs. (When my father told me about needing to walk the middle ground, I was angry at him for about five years.) Nothing profound or likely to change their points of view or even a minor habit - and that’s okay. It’s like that scene in every movie where the kid wants to be a rock and roll star and the dad, helpless old fogey that he is, says sure son, but what’s your backup plan? 

I had a student in my office once talking to me about his plans to drop out of school and go live in the woods. Just him and a knife. 

“Which woods?” I asked.

He looked at me like he was high, which he probably was. “I don’t know,” he answered. “Any woods!”

“I think you’re going to die,” I said flatly.

“I just want someone to believe in me!” he said, and I did, at that point, think he meant it. But he stayed in school. 

At least for another month or two.
