---
layout: post
title: The Paper Route
---
The paper route was handed down from Michael to Marc to Carl to me. I didn’t really want it, but Carl said he had baseball practice in the afternoons, so he could not do it any longer. My memory says that puts him in ninth grade, and so me in third, which means I was about eight. I would have it for about six years, then hand it over to some younger cousins, who seemed to want it as much as I had.

The route was 50 - 60 customers who took one or both of two papers - the Providence Bulletin and the Pawtuxet Valley Daily Times. A truck dropped the papers off at the corner of our street, tied in tight bundles, and you unwrapped them and put them into a canvas shoulder bag and then walked from house to house, leaving the papers on people’s doorsteps, inside their storm doors, and in various other places according to their preferences. Winters meant twisting the steel wire open with hands reluctantly removed from gloves; in summer, the newsprint bled onto the inside of your arm, where you carried stacks of papers.Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays were regular days; Wednesdays the papers weighed you down with ads. Fridays you “collected,” which meant you knocked or rang the doorbell and asked for the money for the week’s papers. Saturdays were light, but you also had to stop and collect those you missed the day before. It also interrupted your day, as you had to deliver at around 2:30 and people got upset if you were late. 

On Sundays the papers came around 4:30 - 5:00 in the morning, and I would have to deliver them starting no later than 7:00. Sunday papers were quite thick, which meant going back to the corner to refill the bag several times. And of course, leading up to Christmas, the papers were overstuffed with ads, which meant you could fit no more than eight or ten at a time.

When it got really cold, when the temperature dipped below about fifteen, my dad would drive me. I’d load the paper bundles into the backseat of his Buick, saving me having to carry them, and providing the chance to occasionally warm up in between running Journals to three or four houses. He would sit in the idling car, radio on, softly  humming to himself. My thoughts were still free to wander, uninterrupted by conversation, and when we returned my mom would be up and the silent morning would continue between the three of us. I’d make myself pancakes and read the Sunday comics, my dad the editorials, and my mom would sit on the big sill of the picture window, drinking Sanka and staring out at the drab winter landscape.

Late morning, the truck which dropped off the papers would return, pulling up to the house this time, and a sour, taciturn man would get out and come and collect payment for the bill he had dropped with the papers the day before. I’d have the money all laid out for him on the picture window sill, bills in order and coins in dollar stacks, which he counted up and swept into his apron. Anything left over I could keep. Most weeks this averaged eight to ten dollars, but at Christmas I could make ten times that, which for a nine year old in 1968 was a lot of money. This all went into a savings account which lasted about three weeks into my first semester at college.

Though it taught me some reasonably good things about work and money, at the time I resented it and was glad to get rid of it. I resented that my father had not intervened when Carl announced I had to take it over. I felt I was too young and not ready for it. Now when I see photos of the lives of some children, when I feel the cruelty which sheer circumstance heaps upon them, I feel a companion sense of shame that I would have ever complained about having to deliver a few papers. But I still wonder why he said nothing.
