---
layout: post
title: Stories of Our Fathers
---
Had dinner with Michelle and Paul last night, who are getting married this coming Saturday. Janette has been asked to preside over the ceremony, and has been working with them to come up with vows, plan the ceremony, all of that. I’m just along for the ride.

As we sat and ate and drank wine though, I began to tally parenting stories. Paul did not talk about his parents, but apparently, at age 25, had had a child with an older woman who died when the child, a son, was eleven weeks old. We talked a bit about how Paul’s mother helped raise the child, a son he named Jeff. I wondered how the act of getting his mother’s help with raising his son -  and I’m guessing to some degree his father’s - changed his relationship with his parents. In a very real way, when he told them to alter whatever they were doing, what he was telling them was, when you did this for me, it was a mistake. Sort of on-the-job retraining by their own son. I wondered how they dealt with that. Did they resent it? Appreciate it? Figure things were just different these days? It forms, in my mind anyway, a strange kind of triangle.

Michelle’s dad, I learned over this same dinner,  left his family when Michelle was about fourteen. Ten years later he remarried and had another child, two years before Michelle had her first. None of which is all that strange except that after he left, he made it quite clear he wanted nothing to do with her and her siblings, kept telling them that they would get nothing from his will, which, if you think about it, is a strange thing to keep bringing up. Apparently, according to Michelle, he has been very devoted to his new family, doting all over the new daughter. But upon hearing of Michelle’s impending wedding, offered to pay for part of it.

Michelle married a Chinese national, then left him, in part I believe, when he hit her. More than once. And the kids. And she had to decide whether to keep her kids away from their father because he would occasionally hit them when he got really angry. She felt - and I agree with her - that it was better for them to know and understand who their father was. Tough call though. One open to a lot of Monday morning quarterbacking, especially if things had not turned out as well as they did.

Then there is Janette of course, and her story of her mother. But also, her father, Jan. He and her mom split when she was one, but it gets worse. Dad kept in touch sporadically, coming through town once in a while, enough for Janette to get a younger brother, also named Jan, about four years her junior. 

Then, maybe three or four years ago, she got an email from a man, yet again named Jan, who claimed to be her half brother. Making a long story short, Jan the dad had two families, one which he started about six months after the first split up. Apparently he left that one as well, before the child was born. And while he traveled all over the world for business, the second family was just on the other side of town from the first. And no one knew, apparently, until Jan the Second Child did some digging and, by chance, happened to find a postmark with Jan the Third Child’s address as the return address. A bit of research found a man who worked with Jan the Dad, who was able to point him to Janette and, eventually, her email address. Confusing, yes: more so to the adults who had to rewrite the history of their childhoods.

Four people at the table and each of us with his or her own unique father story. Each person on the planet has his or her own, and not all of them are bad or even indifferent. Most are complex, filled with all the emotions we humans can conjure up, including awe, anger, longing, resentment, adoration and forgiveness. Each plays out with different perspectives - the father’s and the child’s - and neither can fully understand the other’s, and thus we are left with the choice of whether or not to love, to cover the gap of our inability to grasp the other’s actions, their indifference and selfishness and brilliant moments of tenderness, with acceptance and honor as we might the vast distances between planets or the very existence of stars. It is necessary if we are to survive. 
