---
layout: post
title:  Then and Now
---
Today is my father’s birthday, born 104 years ago. He died while Wendy was pregnant with Max, 22 years ago, at age 82.

I asked to read the eulogy at his funeral. I think it was a mixture of ego and need. I spent a lot of time writing it, and then waited patiently as someone I did not know talked about my dad’s golfing abilities, which to this person, personified his person in that he was not a long ball hitter, but stayed in the middle of the fairway. I thought this was accurate, if also somewhat depressing.

By the time I finished reading my prepared speech, something I had gone over in my head dozens of times, I was sobbing like a child, because I ended it by saying that while I appreciated everything he did for us kids, and how much he loved my mother, I had spent my whole life wanting him to tell me that he loved me, to show me with a hug, an arm around my shoulder. To simply say it. He never did.

My mother talked to me about this after he had died. We sat at on the deep sill of our living room window, where she had perched for much of my childhood, drinking her Sanka and starting out at the landscape of our small-town street. She told me he loved all his children, but could not bring himself to tell us because of his own childhood, how he’d learned to bury too deeply his own needs for love’s small, daily expressions. She tried, she said, to get him to tell us. I looked at her tired face in the window’s light and wondered how, in a family devoid of all intimacy, such a conversation had ever occurred.

+

In sepia tones and the silent stutter of 16 mm film, I picture a small boy in shorts and suspenders, pushed out of his house at 13. He is blinking at the bright sunlight, or maybe at the thought of leaving behind his family, this place where he has felt safe since birth; the clatter of dishes and all that talk at dinner, the routine smell of bleach on laundry days and the easy passing of time at night, the animal warmth of familiar bodies pressed around the Parcheesi board. This would be gone to him now, taken in an instant. He would be facing a new life of regimen and priests and the arcane discipline of Catholic boarding school up north, so far north as to be in a different nation altogether, with a different flag and new customs, a place where there is no warmth at all. Where sin is a presumption and its cure a perpetually bended knee on a cold marble floor. Where the food is without comfort and the beds without safety; where men in long black cloaks stare down in perpetual judgement, and women, with their sanity and comfort and softness are not allowed. Where every step you take in polished, uncomfortable shoes echoes with yearning.

I pick that small boy up in my arms, bring him into the warmth and comfort and color of today. He is heavy in my arms, but I don’t mind at all. I feel as though I could carry him for a lifetime.

“Happy birthday, Dad,” I say. “I love you.” His arms are wrapped around my neck, so I can’t see his face. But I can, in my imagination, feel the beat of his heart. 

