---
layout: post
title:  Puzzles
---
In Changdou, I have breakfast with Eli and notice the sharp differences between my kids. When we are together, we blend in our humor and shared interests, of which we have many. But when I get the chance to have longer conversations with them as individuals, one on one, I see sharply their differences. I wonder, at those times, who their parents might be. 

We venture into the Tibetan quarter of the city, and find: an old woman bent like a question mark, her cell phone pressed to her ear, a young girl wearing a t-shirt that reads, “No one will break the voices of the lonely,” a girl zipping down a main road near the river, four lanes of traffic, at night, on an electric unicycle, no stem, just wheel, she in a business suit with skirt and looking at her cell phone. We drink milk tea in a small restaurant with the owner falling asleep with her cat in her arms; the police show up at our hotel room at 11:15, asking for our passports, asking what we do in the States, where we are going next, when we plan to leave the country. We ask what the problem is, and are told the Chongdou police are having a competition to see who can find the most foreign athletes. While he snaps photos of our passports, I think of an interview I read with a Chinese author who said the police here are always very friendly and respectful as they arrest you.

I struggle with Max’s tendency to practice his Taiji in public, and try to understand why it bothers me. This morning at the train station I had to walk away and I’m not entirely sure why. I am high on the introversion scale, do not like to draw attention to myself, am more comfortable observing than acting. Who, I ask myself, give him this DNA? Why does Sam compile so much data? Where did Eli get his compulsive need for clean laundry? These things grate on me, and I on them, though they are too polite to say anything. My wife has described it for them: my heavy sighs, the way I can take ordinary caution and turn it into a cold, wet blanket on anyone’s excitement. 

And like a puzzle, the four of us seem to not fit together well in the morning and then we walk and air ourselves out and eat and walk some more, and we talk and visit temple after temple, and as the day goes along we start to fall into place, our excesses filling the others’ lack, our regard finding ways to to slip into one another, to form a bigger picture. 
