---
layout: post
title:  The Dance
---
A good night’s sleep last night, finally. The laundry is mostly dry; Janette and I exchange emails that seems to clear up that Eli and I will take Lyft home from Dulles. I’m disappointed; I was looking forward to seeing her at the airport, and not having to do arrange that last nit of travelling, of worrying about what could go wrong and fighting jet lag and all of it. But disappointment, of course, does nothing and there’s nothing to be done but to deal with it.

At the train station, we buy KFC for Eli who is ailing a bit after so many dumplings last night, and I indulge myself and order a #3 meal with a cappuccino. To my surprise, while the fries are standard (and delicious) the coffee is quite good. Later, on the train to Beijing, I eat the wrap and find crisp chicken in a tender warp with spicy sauce and pickled vegetables. It is much better than anything I may have had at a KFC back home. 

Fed and happy, I peek through the window at the passing countryside through the eyepiece of my Nikon. What I see is a nation that is undertaking a immense investment in its infrastructure, on a scale I’ve clearly never seen in my short, sheltered life. In city after city after city, massive projects are underway to build highways, high-rise apartments, public squares, sports arena, transportation. There must be, behind all of this, an optimism of such high level, a belief in themselves as a people and a society who are rising to an unprecedented standard of living and power in the world. The people seem generally relaxed and happy, and by all indications enjoying their new wealth in travel and purchase. 

By contrast, I read about the US and the news is how we are filled with hate and weapons and addicted to violence, so much so that we gun one another down in massive handfuls, day after day, while our politicians do nothing. Worse, they seem to be profiting from it, many of them. Our infrastructure is falling apart, and we have absurdly no sense of ourselves as a people. There is talk – small at this point – of civil war and of breaking the country apart into separate nations.  

Were it not for the whole global warming, end-of-the-world thing, it would be easy to say that within my lifetime, China will replace the US as the world’s political and cultural leader. 

But we’re going to hold off on that one, and for now, just note the ways they have leapfrogged over us: in consumer use of technology (WePay and QR codes), in their train system, which is grand and efficient, comfortable and affordable. (On the train to Beijing from Xian, we are currently going over 300 km/h). The infrastructure they are building shows signs of being climate responsive, while our own EPA, under Trump, seems intent on defiling its name. Medical care is available to all, and I saw scant evidence of homelessness in any of the cities we have visited so far. Begging has been fairly nonexistent.

I’m expansive and optimistic due to a sudden influx in caffeine, and I’m not blind to the inhumanity of the current government. At the same time, I need to acknowledge my own predispositions, and we have been raised in the US to value individual freedom over all else, and this is also a prejudice of mine. It can lead to its own inanity: when the US government closed and national parks were unsupervised for a few days, people trashed them, including breaking off the arms of Joshua trees that had been standing since before Europeans came to the continent. And while we correctly protest the Chinese government’s treatment of the Uyghurs, shouldn’t we also protest the imprisonment of our black population? Or what we are doing to Hispanic families both at the border and within our borders?

Outside my window, wind turbines roll gently in the breeze. Crops shimmer in the sunlight and blue mountains keep their distant silence. There is a drumming, a rhythm to this life of ours, Chinese and American, human and animal, sharks and monkeys and 50,000 types of beetles; the interconnected systems of trees, the gasses that pulsate around our fair planet, seeping into dark places we cannot go, and we can only dimly hear its echo; we cannot quite get our feet to move to this beat, or snap our fingers, but we generate this amazing cacophony from the effort. The more I listen, the less sure I am about who or what is right or wrong, and I can only trust that seventeen generations from now whoever is left standing will be more in tune with this universal dance. The beauty of it would bring tears to our eyes, I am sure, if we could only imagine it.

+

We get into Beijing and it is not hot or polluted but raining, and afterwards the air is fresh and cool and invigorating. We find our way to the hotel by first riding a few stops on the metro, then taking a Didi. The hotels reservationist clearly does not like foreigners - or at least not us - but we get through that, dump our stuff in the room and go out for something to eat. We walk through alleys of gray brick buildings, people everywhere of course, small stores selling small things, find a place which brings us an enormous amount of food. We return to our beds, finally tired, and crash without fanfare. I dream of whirlpools.
