---
layout: post
title:  Overload
---
Max leaves for India today on a China Southern flight to Changdou and then on to New Delhi. China Southern has been in the news lately because some of its pilots apparently spoke out in support of the Hong Kong protesters, which Beijing did not like, so its CEO resigned. I’m keeping a close watch on what is happening in HK right now, and it’s not good.

We send Max on his way to the airport with a series of fond farewells at the metro station and we continue on our way to the Summer Palace. As it reveals itself to us, I am astounded at the size of the place, all dedicated, in essence, to just a few people. This was, in its time, the playground of the richest man in the world, the emperor of the longest running succession of emperors, each building on the wealth and power of the former. At one point, the number of people in his court counted in the tens of thousands, and supposedly one had ten-thousand courtesans, though in China, ‘ten-thousand’ usually translates to “a lot.”  One temple was dedicated for the sole use of the empress to change clothes before she prayed at yet another temple. A lake the size of a reservoir, a dock the size of a triumphal arch, opulent gardens, marble bridges, a dozen outbuildings. A marble boat. All for the sole use of emperor or empress.

I’m exhausted. I’m hot and thirsty and my hips ache from walking. All I want to do is go back to the hotel and swallow Aleve. But we press on, get into the metro and take it to where Sam worked for Microsoft. He brings us to his favorite Boba tea place, where we indulge in what are small loaves of sweet bread, stuffed with Nutella. They come with plastic gloves to wear while you eat them, and they are insanely good, like my body has been starved for Nutella. We wash it down with fruit juice covered with cheese, which is also crazily good, and walk through one mall then another, all packed with people and noise. There is a claw machine with live lobsters. If you win one, you can take it to a nearby restaurant and they will cook it for you. Eli wants to win one and set it free in the mall.

It’s good to see where Sam landed here, and impressive to think he did so on his own. All his basic needs – how to feed himself and get to work and do his work and get his laundry done and open a bank account – he did in this land with such a difficult language and a writing system that is hieroglyphic. Yet not only did he manage to do so, he has thrived, and knows a lot about the culture and the cuisines it offers and its history. He’s done so, it seems to me, not just as a passive byproduct of his intelligence, but also through determination and will. It’s much more than I can do.

Eli and I stumble our way to the hotel and the relief of the clean sheets while Sam wanders off to return a power supply he has rented for his phone. (They’re everywhere, and it’s a bit like renting a bike: you pick one up here, drop it off wherever.) On his way back, he stops at the front desk to see if they can get us tickets for the Forbidden Palace for tomorrow, our last full day in China. 

Turns out it is “sold out” though they can get us tickets for around $30 each. I say fine, so back he goes only to return with the news that, like barbers, the Forbidden City is closed on Mondays. The culmination of our four week trip has come to a resounding floof.

I’m actually fine with that. After today, I’ve wondered just how much more Chinese imperial opulence I can take in, really. Another day of staggering around, taking photos of the past through valleys of tourist profiles. And I know I am disappointed, and I don’t think this is disappointment re-coloring a lost opportunity, downplaying it to rein in the disappointment. The summer palace was stunning, as was the Temple of Heaven. But the Forbidden City will have to remain Forbidden until when I come back, which I doubt I ever will. I’m sixty-one after all.

I send Janette a couple of photos from the summer palace. Via text, I tell her about the City being closed to us tomorrow. 

“Oh no! Can you see it Tuesday?”

“Possibly. But it would be rushed. And raining. So I think we will not see it. It’s okay though.”

“Sorry! It would have been nice to see, I imagine. What will you do on your last day?”

“We will be in areas all around it, including Tiananmen Square. TBH, I’m pretty saturated with imperial Chinese surroundings, so its fine.”

“Sounds nice! Hope you have a splendid time. :)”

I’m not sure of what to make of this conversation. It feels to me as though we are talking past one another, and I think this is the problem with texting, but I also know that we can do this in person as well. I go to sleep feeling contented and alone, grateful for her and my children, and somewhat lost as well, all at the same time. I hope Max is okay. There are no dreams waiting for me.
