---
layout: post
title:  Doubts
---
I had Merlin put down today.

I sat through faculty meeting, with not a whole lot to contribute, feeling edgy and grumpy. On the drive home, it got worse, with a growing impatience with anyone or anything in my way. By the time I got to the vet’s, I was pretty keyed up.

The nurse came into the waiting room and asked what was going on, so I described his symptoms and behaviors to her. She said, “Well, we could take some more blood and run more tests, and . . . ”

“No!” I interrupted. I surprised all of us with the impatience of my voice. “I don’t want you to do any more tests or draw any more blood! I need help in making a decision, and I need to talk with the doctor.”

From there she ushered me into the room and things got a bit better. Both she and the vet were courteous and patient, and the vet guided me to, and then supported the decision, to put him down. 

She asked if I wanted to be there for it. “Or,” she suggested, “some people stay while I give him a sedative and then leave once he’s drowsy.” She gave me a minute to think about it, and all I could think about was how I wept when I watched them put Spalding down, so I handed him over and left. Before I did, I gave him one last ear tug and told the nurse, “He’s a good cat.”

Which he was.

I know Eli will push back on my decision, but in the end, as Sam said, I had to make an executive decision, and part of the responsibility of owning a pet is making a call like this. What made it difficult, I think, was not so much the questions raised by Eli, which were legitimate, but the fact that putting Merlin down was, in some respects, more convenient for me, and I had to be sure that the convenience was not what was driving the decision. How to know?

The more the disease progressed, the more agitated he became: more crying, more running to his food bowl every time I moved, more pawing at me with his claws out. More needing to be let out, or in, with more insistent yowls when I did not move fast enough. So yes, my irritation with him was readily apparent, as was my sympathy, and knowing which was leading me to having him put down was tough. I’d be convinced it was for his own good, then he would throw up on the carpet, or wake me at 4:30 with an impatient cry and I would start to doubt myself.  How one man orders another man - or a hundred, or a hundred-thousand - into combat is something that eludes me. How do you not have doubts about something so final?

I sent the following to my kids on Telegram:

>Sad news regarding Merlin
>I had him put down.
>I took him to the vet, who looked him over, weighed him, listened to his heartbeat. She asked me questions about his physical symptoms and behavior. She said given the strength of his medication, how long he has been living with the disease and how it was clearly getting worse, it was probable that the disease was malignant. When it is, she said, there’s nothing you can do, not even the iodine treatment. She said we could do an x-ray to confirm but that may or may not show us anything. Or we could do blood tests, but she said tests would confirm what she already knew. She said, “This is not your cat anymore. He’s no longer himself.”
>To me, there was no sense in putting it off and prolonging his pain. Eli, you have said we can’t ask him about what he is feeling which is true of course, but I do know what I have been witnessing, and in the last two weeks especially, I’ve seen a rapid decline in him and a huge increase in his agitation. 
>The good news then is that his suffering is over.
>He was a good cat. He joins Spalding as the best of pets I have known, and it’s going to take a while for me to get used to him not being here. 
>I’m sorry for the sad news.
>Love you all.

Now the house is even more empty. It’s just Gwen and me, and Gwen rarely moves and when she does speak, it’s a soft, muted “mew.” She seems unsure as to what to do around the food bowl, waiting for Merlin to come in and take his turn. I’m exhausted from the ordeal of this cat, from trying to figure out how to help Eli let go, from dealing with this constant need in the house for food, from my own sorrow, and the stuff putting him down brings up for me. I don’t know how many more of these adjustments I can take, and I know there are many more in the months and years ahead. Which one puts me over the edge? Which one turns me into a whiny, drooling mass of needs that the doctor calls “no longer me?”
