---
layout: post
title:  Three Falls
---
I fell again the other day. Had gone up to the cabin to get the pilot light on the heat stove up and running, and when I walked out, I slipped on the second step. It was raining lightly, and the step - which I built - is made of pressure treated wood which, in this case, was as slick as ice. So my foot went shooting out in front of my like a Rockette’s, and I fell (very much unlike a Rockette) on my left hip and elbow. 

Unlike the fall I had at the Library of Congress, this one I landed facing up, and had a very keen sense of being all alone. This was my first thought as I hit the ground: “I am alone here.” I don’t know where this came from. I had a cell phone in my pocket, and it actually looked as though the tenants were home, and I fervently hoped they had not seen me. Because, as usual, the major emotion accompanying any fall is that of being embarrassed.

Later I thought, well, one more to come, since these things always happen in threes. But then I figured Janette’s spill on her bike counts as three for both of us. She hit some gravel at the end of the lane and she and bike collapsed like a small playing-card pyramid. I did not know how badly she was hurt and wondered briefly if I should just let my bike go and run to see if she was okay, but then decided to park it. (I’ve been wrestling with this ever since.) She was fine, save a fractured collar bone, though we can’t say for sure because she refuses to go to the doctor and get it x-rayed and only agreed to a sling after a week.

So I wonder: is this the sign that says we have now truly entered into our new life, post-kids? That we fall? There’s a tight connection it seems, between fall, hip injury and death. My brother Marc fell and had to have his hip replaced. He’s been in pain since, and that was some ten years ago. Why does gravity have to be so mean? And why, once you’ve lost that initial claim on being upright, does it have to be so strong and swift?

Otherwise, life has its routine, though I am having some difficulty finding mine. Some weeks I go up to PA on Wednesday after faculty meeting; others I go some time on Thursday. Sometimes I come back on Sunday; sometimes Saturday. It doesn't sound like much, but added to the fact that my stuff is strewn about two states and I feel like I have compelling duties in both places, I feel less centered and more exhausted than usual. Which is saying something.
