---
layout: post
title:  The Price of Repair
---
I returned to work about twelve days ago, on the Thursday after my return from China. Any good habits I may have been inclined toward were discarded: I did not meditate or stretch or walk or eat anything remotely healthy. Eli wanted pizza and I offered to make it, but he said that was not American enough; he wanted something typically greasy and indulgent, so we ordered Dominos and had them bring some Buffalo Wings. Both pizza and wings were pretty bad, but I had sympathy for where he was coming from.
For a few days there, my brain felt like a garden slug on Nyquil and the rest of me felt something worse. I kept sleeping for two to four hours at a stretch and waking out of heavy REM sleep. It felt like when I got Lyme the first time and could barely drag myself out of bed even after sleeping for 11 hours. Everything was heavy with the distinct feel of cotton gauze. Weighed down by too much cotton; such a terrible fate. There was little to do save wait it out and maybe start eating a little healthier.
The morning he realized I had to go to work, Eli came over and gave me a hug from behind the couch and kissed the top of my head. It was amazingly sweet and I remember thinking that he was aware of his pending departure for Portland and maybe grateful to be here. Or maybe he was just growing up and letting me know he loves me. Either way, I was touched by his gesture - enough to where I sat stone still and said absolutely nothing. 
Rolf came by on a Monday afternoon. I sat and listened to him tell me about his daughter’s death, doing my best to be present but simply unable to wrap my head around what has happened and what he must be going through. I lost a child, when he was just six months old and I had never really gotten to know him; what must it be like to lose a child who has become her own person, who is making her way in the world in such a positive and creative manner? And while certainly children are not commodities, I had to wonder how her being his only child. It’s any parent’s ultimate nightmare of course, and I can’t even approach the question of how only child status affects it. 

He seemed, on the surface, to be doing as well as I can imagine. He spoke clearly about the circumstances and the ceremony which took place in southern Oregon, has joined a grief group and is taking it slow to get back to work. These steps strike me as a man being directed by a woman and having the good sense to listen, or at least having lost his innate tendency to resist. Grief and age will do those things, I suppose. Not sure what they do for a woman who has the good sense of these things already.

But grief hits all of us, regardless of gender or any other divider, and it hits us for all kinds of reasons. I met with a mother of a new student this morning; it was obvious she wanted to talk, so I invited her up to my office so she could write a tuition check. I sat and listened to her until she got enough out to be able to write the check: the first anniversary of her husband’s death was coming up in a few weeks; her son struggled with vision issues and brain damage. She needed to move, was about to undergo cancer treatment. 

She explained how she just could not deal with online transactions, and I thought it an odd place to focus one’s resistance to all these changes and challenges, but all in all, a pretty benign one. I referred her to a real estate agent I know, took her check with a smile and said I was happy I was to have her son in my class. Which I was. She seemed relieved and left.

These are the families that come to our school: damaged by life, near all of them, to the point where they are willing to pay just over thirty thousand dollars per year for a little help and relief. In the end, I suppose, it’s what just about all of our money goes for.
+
Eli sounds like things are coming together for him, at least initially, out there in Portland. My other two are incommunicado for another week while they are in their meditation retreat. I wish I could talk to them - the cats are not doing well. 
