---
layout: post
title: China, Nikon and Me
---
I approach the end of jet lag, having gone to bed at about 10:40 and woken up at 6:30. I’m still tired, but my brain is beginning to function once more. Max and I have breakfast together again in the local hostel cafe, and he heads off to Tai Chi class while I return to my seat at the “bar,” with my butterfly friends and the view of the karst mountains. A group of five white birds fly by, too distant to identify but forming a moving origami against the greenery of the hills. While the morning is cooler due to yesterday’s rain, the forecast is for more oppressive heat. The coolest day ahead promises to be Thursday, with a forecasted high of just 89, which sounds delightful right now. 

I get on the WeChat phone and talk with Janette, on the other side of the planet and it sounds as though she is in the room next door. It’s good to connect with her. I tell her about the butterflies, and how they make me think of her. It’s no lie; one of the things I admire about her is the unabashed joy she expresses in small things of nature: a plant I can easily overlook, a small robin that my eye passes over. We are what we respond to, I guess, and wonder where that leaves me.  

+

Sam and I rent mopeds again today and head out to look for a bridge with a name that translates roughly as “Bridge Where You Meet the Dragon.” The image I have seen of it shows a perfect half circle supporting a thin layer of stone steps, with no sides to support it or keep you from falling. It has stood, I recall, for about 700 years old.

We stop every so often to check where we are on our phone maps - my Google and his Chinese version which, unsurprisingly, is often more accurate. We get further and further into the country and the landscape is richly green, but I can’t identify what is growing. To my surprise, I see at least one field filled with corn. We stop at a bridge and I am excited to take photos - the river is soft and lazy, filled with bamboo boats being pushed by men in straw hats. The modern touch of blue uniforms, orange life vests and cafe umbrellas only adds to the color and is dwarfed anyway by the karst hills. A man has stopped to take pictures of his wife, who is much less embarrassed to be obviously posing than he seems to be - either by his desire to photograph his pretty companion or by the simplicity of his camera as he looks at my Nikon. I take a few shots, then reel off a series in one burst - and the camera freezes. 

The viewfinder turns an off-green and then everything is just off. I fish through my backpack for another battery, but when I slip that in and turn the camera back on, I get an ERR message and nothing works. I know this is often caused by dirty contacts between lens and camera, so I switch lenses. Same result: the problem is with the camera.

For the next few hours, I wrestle with this. I try to maintain my perspective: I am here to visit the country, to travel with my children, and photography, while important, should not affect those priorities. But I’m angry at Nikon, at China for not having a camera store with everything I need, at myself for not having a good backup. I take a few photos with my phone, but despite the quality of the images and many serious photographers using them to produce excellent work, my disappointment is overwhelming. We pass a woman in traditional dress, hoeing her small garden, the green, undulating horizon looming over her. A cow stands nearby, and I wish I had my camera.

And then again, maybe not. As I picture myself (pun intended) taking this photo, I know the hollow sense of using that woman as my prop. After all, I know nothing about her save she fits an image I have in my mind of what the Chinese rural landscape “should” look like, and capturing her within it, that’s all to my glory, isn’t it? To share with the world on Facebook and get people to tell me how wonderful my images are? What respect do I bring to this place?

Despite the lingering sadness and disappointment, I begin composing the scenes before me in an effort to understand something and not simply to take. What can I bring to this place that would be of any value to them, besides my money? 

After many starts and stops, we find the bridge. It is hidden by a monstrous five story building that looms directly adjacent to it, the worst sort of communist construction you can imagine: terra cotta brick covered with dripping concrete and, like so many other buildings out in the countryside - abandoned halfway through construction. There’s a restaurant next door, and hawkers everywhere, selling food and water and trinkets, and about eighty bamboo boats crowding through the bridge. A recording of a woman urging people to buy photographs plays on an endless loop, its volume reaching to the next county. I am horrified, not least of all by the fact that the ivy on the bridge is untrimmed and obscures the arch entirely.

Back at the hotel, after dragging Sam into the process of trying to find a camera store, and then a drug store for alcohol and cotton swabs, I find the camera is fine - it was just waiting for me to press the shutter release so it could finish its interrupted cycle. I feel bad for causing Sam all this inconvenience but delighted to have my camera back. We go out to the night market, and I am shooting indiscriminately, a bunch of terribly conceived snaps that do nothing more than to reassure me that I and my fancy camera are still in working condition. 
