---
layout: post
title:  The Cure
---
I awoke at some point in the night with a crushing anxiety and sense of hopelessness, mostly centered on deep feelings of unworthiness and guilt. My mind, which does this often enough, recalled incident after incident of which I hold shame, and replayed them for me against the blank ceiling. I diverted my thoughts to the here and now - I’m lying in bed, I can feel the pressure on my hips and ankles, etc. - but the memories kept resurfacing: that time when I was nineteen and called someone by the wrong name; when I was thirty and got reprimanded by my boss. No incidence held any significant consequence, either then or now, except, it would seem, to my overwhelming sense of shame which picks at each memory like it’s gazing into a mirror and squeezing blackheads. 

I lay there for what must have been ninety minutes or so, alternately fighting to stay present and at other times trying to just feel what I was feeling and break it down into its parts. There it is in my stomach, it feels light, and hollow, and in my head it feels light as well, but in a dizzying way. That kind of thing. 

I don’t know why this is hitting me now, with my kids showing up.  Maybe it’s the prospect of this being our last Christmas here. I have no idea what any future holidays will be like, and I worry that somehow I am letting them down. I am also determined to be present in this one and enjoy it. Maybe there’s the dissonance.

Yesterday evening, Janette asked me if I was excited of the kids coming, the holidays, all of that.  I texted her back and said, “I’m a CEN child - I have no idea what I am feeling.”

I can imagine a lot of responses to that. From a spouse. Most of them are not particularly endearing or useful. But Janette, my dear wife, texted back, “We’ll heal you with lots of love.” Step one, right there. She’s amazing. 
