---
layout: post
title: The Witch
---
My father had occasional nightmares. I’d wake to his hollow moaning, then hear him and my mother whispering, their voices trailing off like a bell rung one time in the quiet, leaving me staring at the orange light and soft shadows the night reflected through my window.  Awake, my body tingling with anxiety, I’d stare in fear at the dark closet across the small room. It had been carved out of a gable, punctuated with a leaky oriole window and containing a small access hole in the center of a cripple wall, an access which led to nothing save demons and half-visible goblins intent on laying their hands upon me. The demons had the same disembodied voice as my father, a mix of anger and subdued horror that could not, in my mind, be explained by anything connected to the man I saw at the dining table each morning. These strange events, in which he cried out as a child but in a man’s resonant voice, left me adrift and even more alone.

My inherited nightmares are, as of late, concerned with the witch who lives in my father’s house. A large foursquare just down the hill from where we lived, it had been carved up sometime after my grandmother's death into office space and apartments. My father spent his entire career in just two dental offices here, across the hall from his brother, also a doctor, and upstairs from his nephew who converted what they called the parlor, and another room with a lesser name, into a tax accountant’s suite. Between my dad’s and uncles’s offices, a portion of the vinyl floor had been replaced with an image of the medical symbol, twin snakes winding about a winged staff which I was told was medicine but which felt very poisonous to me. Every six months or so, I was summoned down from our house to wash and wax those floors, and standing with mop and pail over the puzzle of the snakes, would smell the peroxide coming from the back apartment where another cousin cut and dyed and set hair and concocted strange laughter which mixed with the dour faces and the antiseptic smell coming from behind my uncle’s closed doors. The witch who now visits me at those same intervals hides just down from this spot, in a nether space between the two flights of the central staircase, hidden in an apartment between the floors. Her presence grows like dark dread, like damp cold in the bones.. She is silent and her silence makes my skin crawl because I can feel her in the empty rooms with me, a menacing anger with powers to hurt in ways I cannot imagine, much less try to stop.  She is aware of each step I take, and both pulls me toward her and fills me ever more with the need to run. The fear starts somewhere in my inner organs and extends out like a paralysis, sticking me in place as I try to move my legs and arms through the thick blankets and I awake, hearing within the sound of my own voice that same hollow start of a yell as was my father’s. In the half light, there remains a lingering sense of her there with me, in real life, as I catch my breath and feel my heart pulse in my chest. 

Last night I walked past my father’s building but not into it. I knew people were born and lived and died there, elderly French-Canadians in humid rooms filled by whispers of “priez pour nous.” Where the witch hovered over all, within them all, or so I felt. All save my one uncle who slept miserably in his car out front, reeking of cigar smoke and content with a world the size of his front bench seat. I walked past him as well, between him and whoever was dying that day inside, and up the shallow hill to the house where I grew up, where none of this happened - no births or deaths, where no one seemed to live at all - and where now the siding had been stripped and I could see through the house, through the stud walls, completely through to the willow in the backyard, which leaned down and kissed the wire fence in a marriage of yellow and green. Inside sat the witch. Mostly translucent, outlined in black, like a marker drawing, a gray gown, and inverted hat spreading up to the sky, I sat down to face her for the first time. 

I told her to get out of my house, that she had no right to be there. She said nothing, but glared at me with her anger growing and gathered razors from somewhere within her viscera. She intended to cut my arms. She stood and circled the table toward me, a table where we had all sat, seven of us, squeezed for dinner each night, elbow to elbow, heads bowed, an endless parade of chicken and mashed potatoes and canned vegetables.  I got up as well and kept the table between us. I kept repeating, “Get out of my house! You have no right to be here!” 

The words came slowly and with great effort. I awoke to hear myself yelling “You have no right!” A door appeared, and then its tarnished brass hardware, and the room shaped itself into the normal space about my bed and I saw that the witch had been my mother.

Well, maybe 75-80% my mother. The rest seemed to be Joni Mitchell. 

