---
layout: post
title:  Jumping to Conclusions
---
First “work at home day,” because it’s the first Thursday since school restarted. My schedule is that I am to work at school Monday through Wednesday, and then from home on Thursday. No work on Friday - at least not for Nora. Those days I am supposed to spend getting this house ready to sell, taking care of the other properties, and looking for a job for next year. 

I like working from home. It’s like shutting the door to the office, except the music is on, I have my own, personal coffee pot and no one knocks on the door. 

+

I came across an article on the web entitled, “Having Kids Makes You Happier, But Only When They Move Out.” It’s from a site called New Scientist, which is an admittedly suspect name, and there are a few sentences in the article which I found amusing. One is the assertion that “people with kids are less happy than their child-free peers because they have less free time, sleep and money.” The other is that “If parents balk at the idea of waiting for their kids to move out to maximize their potential happiness, they could move to a country with better childcare support.”

After dropping Eli off at Lewis and Clark, Janette and I headed into the Willamette Valley and stopped in on Elk Cove vineyards, where we had a singularly emotional moment – or two – as we exhaled and took in the fact that we were now, truly, empty-nesters. We were ushered to an empty terrace and poured generous samples of wine which we sipped while overlooking a quiet, sunny vineyard. I was surprised by how emotional I felt, a mix of deep sadness and light-headed relief. And certainly excitement as we pivoted toward a new phase of life, one with more freedom and a lot less to prove. To any parent, the article’s insights are as obvious as acne, but I don’t think they add up to its conclusion and headline. It wasn’t happiness I felt having dropped off my youngest at college, but the lightening of responsibility, and in my case anyway, I know that responsibility weighed heavily. In addition, I remember the joyful moments: the feeling of their tender weight as infants, or the first time each of them laughed. There are so many, including Halloweens as toddlers, middle school graduations, the innumerable times they made me laugh, the first chess game I lost to one of them, and having my youngest, his face and hands covered in dirt, pull rocks out of his pockets and show them to me with unrestrained glee. 

Happiness is a vague and imprecise word, so broad as to be misleading, as in the title of the article. I know a couple of women who never had kids and they have expressed a deep sense of sadness around this. Janette and I sometimes imagine just how well off and carefree we would be had we not had kids – six between us – but these are momentary indulgences which we don’t take seriously. It can be easy to watch a couple of parents struggle with three kids and the stroller and the diaper bag and the sticky hands and to recognize their fatigue and their sense of isolation, but it’s worth recognizing that there’s joy there as well, and not just in preparing for the future. 

In other words, I think the article on the so-called “New Scientist” web site is a lot of bullshit, and if this is going to be the “new science” going forward, the New Dark Ages can’t be far behind. I wonder if there is a web site for that?
