---
layout: post
title: Navel Gazing
---
It’s  been about three weeks since I dropped Eli off at the airport. I’m getting used to living alone. I go to bed whenever I want and, because it’s summer and school is closed, I get out of bed whenever my body wants me to. The refrigerator and freezer and pantry are all slowly emptying, and the cats have redirected their incessant needs toward me, the only option left to them. They are exquisitely annoying.

My habit has become to get up around 7:00-ish and make a pot of coffee, then sit with an iPad and scan the headlines of the New York Times, read  a few opinion columns and do the mini crossword. I check FaceBook to see if anything is happening there because, well, it is ther, and sometimes I scroll through Reddit, where people can truly be clever and funny in ways that are not at all mean-spirited.

Eventually I will do my daily meditation. I try not to concentrate on anything such as the breath or a mantra, but to take that beam of attention, as it were, and widen it to a 360 degree sphere, letting in only what pertains to the senses: feel my weight on the seat, my feet on the rug. This morning, I listen to the sound of cicadas and our neighbors' chickens through the open windows, and birds and people talking as they walk in the park. If I can achieve this, the open reception of sensory input without judgement or tangents, for a few brief moments during a 20 minute period, that’s good. But today I don’t, probably because of too much coffee, and I try to accept that as well. It’s not about my experience while meditating, but about my meditating, the actual sitting down to do it every day. I’ve been doing this for roughly 250 days now, and what I’ve learned is that it is the cornerstone of my spending the next 20 years getting ready to die.

Janette says that I seem to enjoy life despite all evidence that I do not. I know what she means. She’s wildly enthusiastic about everything, whereas I am about nothing. But that does not mean I am not moved by them. I love sitting here and watching a cardinal streak by the window; I just don’t say much about it.

So living alone for these past three weeks (save when Janette is here, or I’ve been up in PA) has been good. As she has pointed out, I could do anything: run around naked, watch porn on the big screen, play my music really loud. None of those things interest me though, and I find I am doing much the same as I always did, just with more silence. 

Consulting the actuarial tables, I figure I have about 20 years. This helps with focus. So what do I want?
Prepare for death
Love my wife as best as I can
Love my children as best as I can
Take a few nice photos

To develop a lifestyle that supports meditation instead of the other way around, I would most likely want to give up alcohol, caffeine, meat and processed foods, more or less in that order, but that’s just not going to happen with any of them. So I can aim to cut down, and to ramp up other things, like a second daily meditation and some coassional stretching. And, I think, to learn from my children how to re-prioritize some things in my life, over and above the responsibilities of getting things done. Because one of the responsibilities of being a father is, of course, learning from your child
