---
layout: post
title: Anita
---
The other night while Janette and I were at dinner, a song by the Waterboys came on over the restaurant’s loudspeakers, and I spun out of the present moment and into a few memories of Anita. She was a girlfriend in college for a while, then later a true friend - my best friend for a long time - who died of cancer about 12 years ago..

I had talked with her in the spring of that year and she told me about the cancer - small cell carcinoma - and how she felt like she was going to beat it. I called again in July or August and she was so weak her daughter Anna had to hold the phone up to her ear so she could hear me, and she was too weak to even speak. She died a few days later. I did not go to the funeral but for the life of me I cannot now recall why, and while I’m sure it seemed like a good reason at the time, whatever it was, it sure doesn’t now. 

We started dating the weekend the Pope showed up on campus. I was studying architecture and she Theater at the Catholic University of American in the Northeast section of Washington DC. I know this was the exact time because to celebrate such a blessed event, a friend of mine and I dropped acid the night before, and when he and I became separated, somehow Anita showed up and rescued me. I was more or less fine, in that I could think and hear and do most things as I normally would, but my visuals were completely out of whack. The grass would undulate like ocean waves, and when I looked at the cathedral where the Pope would be in about 12 hours or so, the blackness behind the window panes would start leaking down the sides of the church walls, as though the building was bleeding the night. I described this to her, and we both laughed, and she led me safely around, our arms cradled together. We eventually made it back to her place and I came down and we watched the Pope on tv and laughed some more and enjoyed being away from the crowds. Eventually we took our clothes off and went to bed.

I have no idea how long we dated - a semester maybe? I don’t think it was all that long. She was smart, funny, generous, passionate. She gave of herself to me in a way that no other woman had, or has since, and so I, of course, broke it off.  I had no idea why, only a vague sense of being uncomfortable. Maybe I didn’t want the responsibility of someone trusting me all that much, or maybe it was just the intensity of the emotions, or something, but what it felt like, as I recall, was a sense of being physically uncomfortable with this bright, beautiful woman loving me unabashedly. .

Of course I regretted it later, and when I ran into her just after graduation, I tried to reconnect in a gentle, apologetic way. She accepted it, and in the next breath said she was leaving in a few weeks to go live in Italy with a guy she had met. So we spent a bit of time together before she left, and then saw one another a year later in Rome, and then managed to stay in touch via letters for a while. Then email. 

Our lives took on a strange synchronicity: our first marriages, our first divorces, our second marriages, the births of our first (and in her case, only) children and our second divorces all happened within a few months of the other’s. And from time to time we would see one another - in England when she moved there, here in the States when she came back to live in Massachusetts with her third husband. Each time we would confirm our friendship. We understood and accepted one another’s weaknesses and strengths, and saw humor in things that no one else seemed to. On one visit, what felt like friendship seemed to spark into a rekindling of love that was so strong and so obvious that her daughter, who was maybe six or seven at the time, picked up on it and let us both know that this was unacceptable.  There was nothing for us to do about it anyway, as we were both married at the time, but it was enjoyable for the afternoon, so we let it be, knowing we could.

She once described me as “the one that got away,” and I could easily have done the same, except she didn’t really get away as much as walk away because of how I clutched up, froze. And I was quite happy having her as a friend out there somewhere, leading a similar and very separate life, one I supposed was always just a slightly better version of mine. From time to time, when I was disconsolate or lonely or struggling in some way, I would soothe myself with a fantasy of she and I living out our old age together, in a small house in the Scottish highlands. It was fantasy and I knew it, a comforting diversion away from whatever ailed me, though honestly at times it would lose that remove and become a real, living desire. Even then I found it consoling (unlike a normal unattainable desire, which becomes a source for depression) as though simply because I could imagine it and wanted it, it would happen and I could count on it. Sometimes I mean well, but get everything else wrong, especially when I mean well primarily for myself. 

I miss her, now. Not for me this time, but because she was a good soul who deserved to live a long and happy life, to see her daughter grow and change and fall in love, maybe even hand her a grandchild to hold. All the usual shit we all hope for, though knowing Anita there would be some other stuff as well, like the pleasure of a disastrous dinner party or feeling a book she’d always cherished come apart in her wide hands. I still talk to her occasionally; I explain to her why I still long for unnamed things and I see her marble eyes shine and her lips tighten as she nods, knowing far more than I and unable or too kind to be able to explain.

And I still feel that claustrophobia sometimes when people get too close. Now though, I just go for a walk and, if there are leaves to be had, lose myself in the veins. 
