---
layout: post
title: Being Mom and Dad
---
Got an email from Kaiser Permanente telling me that I would no longer receive emails concerning Eli or be able to do anything for him as of this Friday at 12:00 midnight, when he turns 18. I reported this to Janette who asked how I felt about that. 

“Well, on the one hand it’s a relief,” I said. “You know, it’s all up to them - ‘You take care of it!’”

“On the other hand,” I continued, “I wonder if they are ready for it.” This is the part of parenting these days I like least - fearing for them, wondering if they can handle all the stuff of adulthood: paying bills on time, paying taxes, getting yourself to the doctor’s office, the dentist, not having unprotected sex with strangers. Of course, there’s nothing I can do about it except trust their good judgement, which they mostly have. But they are, from my point of view, still young and raw.

Janette said, “I have kids in their thirties.” 

“And how does that feel?”

“Like there’s nothing for me to do.”

Which is not true, of course. When 9-11 happened, one of the first people I called was my mother. Shit happens, and when it does, we call mom.

Wendy and I split when Eli was just a couple of months old, so for the bulk of their lives, when I have had my kids, I have been both dad and mom. And there are parts of being a mom that I clearly just did not do well, if at all. Sometimes I would think maybe it’s okay, they get that part at their mom’s house. But I still had to send them off to school with a lunch, which I’m sure was not nearly as good or thoughtful as the ones they got from their mom, since all of them, at some point in Middle School, said, “Dad, I’ll make my own lunches, thanks.” .

And put them to bed at night. I can remember being very tired and putting Eli to bed and having him express fears about dying in his sleep. Typical thing for an eleven year old to consider and have anxiety over. Instead of being a mom and validating his fears and sharing them, I said something along the lines of, “Jesus Christ, you’re not going to die. Just go to sleep.”

An even lower point as dad/parent/human being came when I forgot to feed Max’s mice. He had two mice that he was rather fond of and when he was on vacation with his mother one summer, I forgot to feed them. Desperate, one of them ate the other. Max returned to his cozy room only to discover that through neglect, I had forced his mice to resort to cannibalism. This is what is known as a shameful memory.

Looking back, I figure my failures as a parent had less to do with my having to fulfill both roles and more to do with my failures as a human being. It’s less whether or not I put their bandaids on with enough compassion as much as did I put the bandaids on at all?

If there was one single thing I just could not stand as a parent, it was that question of what to make for dinner every single day. Every single day, that question hung over me like a great, big cloud of responsibility. And every day I put dinner on the table at 6:00 because, most likely, that is the time we always ate when I was growing up, and when it comes to fulfilling responsibilities, I’m more about getting it done than I am about being creative. Sometimes, I think, the best you can do as a parent is the bare minimum, and if you do that, it’s good enough. 
