---
layout: post
title:  Looking for a Friend for the End of the World
---
After China, my kids and I switched to yet another communications application, this one called Telegram. I used it to compose a message to my kids:

>Tough Call to Make Regarding Merlin

>He’s really not doing well. The disease is just getting ahead of us - I am medicating him as much as I can - two times, twice a day - and he simply cannot eat enough food. I give him half a can of food twice a day, and it’s not enough. (Large cans. And yeah, Gwen eats some, but not much.) He’s hungry all the time and he’s still skinny - his stomach caves in and his spine is bony. I can’t give him the care he needs; I’m not even sure what that would be at this point.

>As much as I love this cat, and that is a lot, I think we’re at the point where it is cruel to keep going this way. And I’m thinking of the day I took Spalding to the vet. I wrapped him up in a towel because he was so weak, and his dew claw fell out. I remember realizing that I had waited too long, that he had suffered because I just did not want to make the decision that he should die. So as much as I don’t want to make that decision again, I really don’t want to cause Merlin to suffer needlessly because I am too gutless to make the call.

>But of course I want to hear from the three of you. Please let me know your thoughts. I have scheduled a woman to come to the house and put him to sleep on Friday.  I told her I needed to check with you guys first, but I do need to let her know by end of the day Tuesday, if possible. 

>Of course, that’s not set in stone, but if we wait too long I may falter, I’m afraid. 

>I’m really sorry to have to write this and to do this, but it’s where we are with him. I don’t know of any other options, other than to give him to someone who can spend all day, every day with him, but no one wants to adopt a 14 or 15 year old cat with a severe medical condition. 

>Thoughts?

After sitting with this for a few minutes, I felt uncomfortable with it, so I sent it to Janette instead of the kids and asked for her thoughts. She replied that she told her kids only after she had had their cat, Princess, put down, in order to save them the pain of fore knowledge. That seemed too far at the other end for me, to paternalistic, but I realized that by asking for their permission, I was asking my kids to make the decision. Instead, it was mine to have to make.

So I scrapped the entire message and wrote
>Sorry to have to post this here, but I am going to have Merlin put down. He is in constant discomfort, and I don’t want to wait too long.

Eli, in his own way, objected. 
>How do you know he is in pain?

And then, in a few minutes:
>What about radioactive iodine therapy?

What?

Turns out there is a relatively new treatment option which involves injecting the cat with radioactive iodine. This apparently attacks the cat’s abnormal thyroid cells, which, because of the disease, are the only ones that are active, and therefore the only cells which will absorb the radioactive iodine. (The thyroid, apparently, is the only gland in the cat that uses iodine, so although your kitty might subtly glow in the dark for a few days, it’s all good).  So now there is this to consider.

In truth, this made me sad, and I sat with my cup of coffee to think about why this might be the case. I sat on the loveseat, one fat cat squashing the cushions of the chair next to me, the other skinny one breathing down my neck waiting for food, and what I really needed was someone to talk to. But who? I have few friends, and none that I could have this kind of conversation with. 

I looked at Merlin and stroked his annoying little brow, meowing as he was, constantly, everlasting, beyond the time when the seas dry up and mankind has moved on to other stars. He was as good as anyone I figured – pure of heart and a captive audience to boot. So I told him of my worries, my concerns, my heartache at having accepted the need to put him down, now having to reconsider my option. He listened like a priest, and when I was done, I felt better. I could live with the pain of watching him suffer – and he would have to hang in there a bit longer – if only to ensure that we’d really looked at every option. It was, I told him, nice to have him as a friend, even as I appreciated the irony of talking to him about having to put him down.

And then that friend reached out and clawed me. 
