---
layout: post
title: Connections
---
I’m awake much too early again, but so is Max. We sit outside for a while, sweating, then walk into town to try and get some Chinese Yuan. Traditional Chinese architecture abounds, with tiled roofs and arched bridges and lanterns over the streets, but it all houses stores jammed with material goods. Each shotgun outlet specializes, and there are stores for sneakers, handbags, herbs, lipstick, moped repair, river cruises, noodles, tea and “hand carved” chess sets for 100 Yuan, or about eight bucks. Noise assaults us as we stroll, from high-tech speakers to hawkers to mopeds to people shouting through megaphones, and it’s still only about 8:30 on a Sunday morning. I wish I had brought my camera, and I’m glad I didn’t: I can be guilty of getting “the shot” and then moving on, looking for the next one, without really absorbing what I am seeing. Besides, a still camera - even a video - would not really convey the sense of it all, which includes a rather rank smell in addition to the oppressive humidity. Max and I agree that the only way to beat this heat is to give into it, to accept that we will sweat constantly and that seeking out air-conditioning all the time will simply highlight our misery. It takes two weeks for the body to adjust to heat like this. We immediately agree to re-think our plan to spend a week in Beijing, which, according to an app Sam has on his phone (Sam has a LOT of apps on his phone) is as hot as it is in Saudi Arabia and East Africa. Together, they make up the triumvirate of the hottest places on the planet right now.

After we’ve woken Sam up, we go out again and hit a coffee shop recommended by Google Maps. It’s a beautiful place overlooking the river, and because it’s geared toward westerners, about four times as expensive as a local place would be. We can search those places out tomorrow- for now, it’s good to be cool and relaxed and I’m struck one again at how comfortable I feel hanging out with my adult sons, as different as they are. Sam, dark complexioned, loves data and analysis and logic. He’s shy like me and avoids the limelight. He’ll always try English first with the local people, and then revert to Chinese, even though they are always relieved to learn he speaks it. And he speaks it well. I witnessed him have a half-hour conversation with our DeeDee driver, sharing jokes and talking easily back and forth. 

Max, on the either hand, breaks out into Tai Chi in the middle of a museum, will sing anywhere, loves, like an actor, to be on stage. I have no idea how these two are going to travel together for the next six to eight weeks.

+

I take a short nap in my effort to get used to the heat, correct the jet lag and not get sick. Sam gets me connected to a VPN, so now I have access to all my usual internet services and apps. Not sure if this is a good thing or not, but I don’t particularly see the need to disappear for four weeks while traveling, It’s not like I am checking work email, and it is interesting to me to see people all over the world and stay in touch, if only through posted photos: Dave out west in Moab, Christina in Indonesia, former students all over the world. The locals here wear western-style clothing with English on their t-shirts. They use American and Korean phones, drive Italian mopeds and seem to love KFC. People talk about the coming singularity, but at the moment I think what they mean is the coming homogeneity.

Speaking of VPN’s, Sam says the one I am using is not strictly a VPN at all, but something called a ShadowSock, and it was invented by a Chinese computer scientist, who just put the code out on the Internet. One day the Chinese police showed up at his apartment and told him he needed to take it down, which he did, but by then it was already out there. It’s complicated enough that the average person - even the average computer literate hacker - can’t set it up, but so far the government has not figured out how to stop it. And when something political happens and people start buzzing about it here, VPN’s will get very slow for about a week or so, which is the government’s way of saying, we know what you are doing and we can stop it at any time. But so far at least, the don’t seem able to stop this. 

Riding up here on the train yesterday, I found myself having some empathy for the government here. There are about 2.1 billion people. The physical area is about the same as the United States, but much of the country in the west is desert and sparsely inhabited. Imagine taking the population of the US and moving it all east of the Rockies, then multiplying the population by seven. How do you organize and feed and provide health care and basic housing and utilities for all those people under a system of self-governance that would allow for the kinds of debates and shifting of policies that we see in the States? Frankly, our system seems pretty broken right now, and so it’s easy to see this side of the argument, which is, there just needs to be someone in charge, and the debates which come under democracy are irrelevant when people are sick and starving.

On the train, the PA announced that if smoke you will damage your reputation, then lists then some more practical repercussions, such as arrest and a fine. It made me smile to think that in China, the most serious damage was not to your freedom or your wallet, but to your reputation. I figured we could probably use this concept in the US, where people seem willing to debase themselves on national television for $1000.

Enough politics. I need to get back to fighting off this impulse to be doing things all the time. This trip, unlike others, is also about just being - with my kids, in one place, in this heat. Looking at these spectacular hills and learning their colors as they shift from hour to hour. Listening to the cicadas, and how they sound differently from those back home. Learning to be content while sipping tepid tea and feeling my feet swell. The good life.

+

Eli sends us a message that his friend Raven has an infected foot and is in the hospital, putting his flight tomorrow into question. Seems she may have to return to the hospital if it’s not better in a couple of days, and there is no international hospital here in Yangshuo. Sam says he has a blog entry on using Chinese hospitals: Raven reads it and is reassured that she can get good care here in Yangshuo. They will leave Shanghai as scheduled and meet us, regardless of her foot’s condition.

I ask Sam and. Max if we should reserve mopeds for tomorrow and Max answers with an enthusiastic “Yes!” He’s been gone for the afternoon and has apparently met up with a hostel owner who asks him to do some art for his place, and now Max says he has plenty of stuff for us to do tomorrow.

Rolf texts me. He says “There has been great support here from Kristen who is with me and got to know Anna over the past couple of years. I am constantly thinking of Anna and I discovered that it unlocks lots of memories, things that I forgot. Enjoy your time with your boys. We’ll reconnect when we are back in the states.”

I say, “Yes. Okay. Absolutely. My love to you.” But I don’t send it. He and I are old school, reserved with our emotions around one another. How will that last sentence make him feel? What does it even mean?

I think of my three sons. They are so much bigger and smarter and braver than I ever was or will be - a thought that makes me very happy. I send the message.
