---
layout: post
title:  Pain Free
---
A week ago yesterday, I developed some back pains, which I attributed to a flare up of my sciatica which I get from time to time. On Monday it was worse, but I figured it would work itself out as it usually does. The rest of the week it did not feel any better, and Thursday, Thanksgiving Day, I felt a sharp pain in my left kidney. This was different and on top of what I had been feeling all week. I slept very little that night, getting up at around 3:40 to lie down on the kitchen floor which was cold and hard and wonderful until the rest of me got too cold. At that point, already feeling guilty for keeping Janette up (Kat and David were in her bed, so she was joining me in mine) I curled up on a love seat in her office and caught a few winks.

Friday I just felt bad all day and then Saturday, unable to sleep again and feeling even worse, I asked Janette to take me to the ER. Luckily for us, in West Chester that means a trip of less than a mile.
Janette dropped me off at the entrance and went to park the car. As I walked through the two sets of entry doors, I had a moment of doubt: maybe I was just fine and did not need this at all. Maybe I could just walk home and the night air would refresh me.

By the time I reached the counter, about fifteen feet away, that had all fallen away and I was desperate for relief. Janette showed up and I promptly went into their bathroom and threw up from the pain. They gave me some morphine, which did not help at all, so they gave me another round which helped about as much. I got MRI’d, then threw up again. They told me I had a kidney stone, which I’d already figured out, and gave me tamsulosin, a muscle relaxant that I can only describe as a miracle of modern medicine. I got released around 9:30 and spent the day high on Percocet’s. Sunday, that stone moved down into my bladder and broke up, and this morning I peed it out in tiny, pain-free little pieces.  

It’s a humbling experience to be in that much pain, and so dependent upon others. I wondered what people did 300 year ago, and figured they either died before it developed (at 61, I’m significantly beyond the average age of life expectancy  for the 18th century), died because it was larger than 4-5 mm and blocked their urethra altogether, or languished for a few days in utter pain, drinking whiskey if they had it until the stone passed. Instead, I took opioid-based pain killers and amused myself by watching history videos on YouTube.

I am spoiled. 

It’s true - to have what turned out to be an excellent medical facility (UPenn-Chester County) so close by (really, I could walk there); to have modern drugs and an MRI machine, to have such a caring and doting wife (she got everyone out of the house Saturday night so I could have some peace and quiet); I got lucky in that the stone was not so big and broke up before I had to send it out of my penis, a thought which still give me the creeps. And now I am doing follow up this morning with my doctor instead of going to work. Being spoiled means being pain free, and I will take it every time.

Told my siblings; turns out Charlotte has had a couple of these. Did not tell my kids because I could not think of a good reason for them to know. I’m sure it will come up as a topic of discussion when they are all here later this month.
