---
layout: post
title: Part 1, Home Alone
---
> “Being alone never felt right. Sometimes it felt good, but it never felt right.”
> ― Charles Bukowski, Women


My first full day as an empty-nester coincides with this year’s so-called celebration of Father’s Day, a nice irony that I appreciate it. I send my kids a message wishing THEM a Happy Father’s Day, because it is they who give me this role, and I think it’s good to honor their lives today and not my role as father. That is one thing their mother and I agreed on - that these are holidays created to drive commerce more than anything else, and we had little use for them.

Of course, by the time I send that message, the day is almost over in China. And still, Eli’s journey continues - I thought once he got to Hangchou someone from the YMCE would meet him and drive him back to camp. But apparently they just asked someone to meet him and put him on a train, which is turning out to be about a 2 -1/2 hour ride. From there, he needs to catch a taxi to the camp.

And of course, with each leg of his trip I have allowed myself to relax, just a little bit, and now this development has raised my anxieties all over again. Will he fall asleep and miss his stop? He assures me he is lucid, which makes sense since his body thinks it is late morning. Will there be taxis available when he gets to the station? How rural is it? Why would there be taxis there at 12:30 on a Monday morning? Will anyone even be up to receive him when he gets to the camp? 

I occupy his and my time by chatting with him over WeChat about the difference between emojis and stickers . . .  

When Sam first left for school - the first to go away on a more or less permanent basis - he arrived at about 1:30 in the morning, and the cab driver just dropped him off at the entrance to campus. He had two big duffel bags full of stuff and had to look at a campus map and find his way to his dorm, which he found locked. He gained entry only because someone happened to be coming in - by then around 2:30 - and had pity on him. He told the story afterward, to which I reacted with guilt that I had not seen this coming and thought it through for him. Dave, my boss, said it makes a good story for him to tell, which is true, but it still felt somehow that I was being a negligent parent.

Because you start speeches - especially serious ones - with a funny remark or two, I started mine the other day at graduation with this story. 

> “A former student asked, “How do I teach my child patience?” I responded with the expected answer. I said you have to model it, show him your own patience. She replied - and this conversation was all in text, so I have to imagine the tone, but parents, you’ll certainly recognize it - “But I feel like that’s all I ever do!” So I said, Well, try benign neglect. It looks like patience, but it’s a lot easier to pull off.””

But now I wonder now about the truth contained in that story, since all good humor has some in it. Surely every parent has engaged in this kind of thing from time to time - our ability to attend to each and every demand or need our children have is of course, limited, and needs to be. That is how they develop their ability to attend to their own needs and wants. But at times like this, or when I imagine Sam wandering around a dark campus at 2:30 in the morning, all his worldly goods hanging on his shoulders, I feel an overwhelming sense of my selfish behavior in the face of parental responsibilities.

If there is truth in that accusation, my defense would be that I come by it honestly. But more on that later. 

Right now I’m having a three-way chat with Eli and Sam. Eli is in a cab, on his way to his camp, and is worried he won’t have enough cash to pay the driver. Apparently everyone there uses their phone to pay for just about everything, but now the rules have changed and in order to do so you need a Chinese bank account. Seems like a major hassle if you are just there visiting - but I guess there’s always cash. Which is its own hassle, of course.

Seems like the Chinese are taking a small step away from globalization. 

I blame Trump.
