---
layout: post
title: No-Plow Parenting
---
Max flies to Hawaii today. One more part of our all coming together in China.

Whenever I get too worried about being overly uninvolved in my kids lives, I counter it by recalling his magnet program application. He had been in a middle school program for writing, and while it was a good program, it kind of burned him out. About halfway through his 8th grade  year, he said he did not want to go on to the high school writing program, but wanted to apply to the Visual Arts program for painting and drawing instead. I’d not seen him draw much, so I was a bit surprised, but after a few questions, he said he knew what he had to do to put together a portfolio and he would do it.

I refrained from saying all the things on my mind: that this was a drastic shift, that drawing was really difficult, that neither he nor I had any idea if he had any talent. And if he did, why had it not shown through already? This felt like a reach for something, rather than a drive. But as I said, I kept my mouth shut.

I went with him to the interview and sat with him while he presented his work to the teacher and answered her questions. She was suitably impressed by what she saw, but not nearly as much as I was, knowing that everything she was looking at had been produced in the past couple of months. As the two of them were wrapping up, she turned to me and said, “You’re the most hands-off parent I have ever met.” I heard the relief in her voice, but beyond that, it didn’t really sound like a compliment. I said, “It’s his work!” I thought that much was obvious.

He got in and it was 100% his doing. Had I jumped in during their conversation, to remind him of this or to point out that, what would that have said to him? I suppose he could have seen me then as his advocate, but I was there, sitting alongside  him, and so my support I believe was apparent. But jumping in would have said that he was not doing it completely right, that he needed my help, and he obviously did not. So I think that one - at least that one time! - I got it right.

As Bill Murray says in “Caddyshack,”  I got that going for me. 
