---
layout: post
title:  Neglect
---
We’re up relatively early because we need to switch hotels, and manage to get by the same receptionist without a hitch and catch a Didi to the new place. Much swankier as we can tell when we are greeted by half a dozen people upon entering. As always, I feel underdressed in these places. Under-kempt as it were. They process two of our passports, then disappear into a back room with Eli’s before coming out a good ten minutes later and saying everything is okay. We figure it’s because of his visa type, and carry on. 

We get settled and go for breakfast and after rejecting one place because of the smell of vinegar makes Eli nauseated (memories of too many dumplings), we eat and find the metro to the Temple of Heaven. It’s an astonishing place. The main temple has such presence and occupies it place on the hill with a power and majesty befitting its role. We stroll leisurely through the surrounding park.

The emperor came here but once per year, to pray for a good harvest and a prosperous year. His subjects were forbidden to look upon him as he traveled, so anyone along the path from Forbidden City to this temple had to remain inside with the shutters closed. We come across a replica of his sedan, about twenty-five feet long and requiring some thirty to thirty-five eunuchs to carry. I realize how wealthy I am: compared to this man who, at the time, was arguably the richest and most powerful in the world, my Triumph back home gives me a better ride than this could. I idly speculate about someone two thousand years from now, and what comforts they might enjoy.

The kids try squatting and discuss their problems with it and, to everyone’s surprise, perhaps most of all my own, I squat without a problem and actually find it kind of restful. In the rose garden, a selfie girl walks steadily, her camera on and pointed at her from the end of her stick, while she constantly eyes herself on the screen. Her boyfriend, or maybe just date, walks half a step behind, guiding her. She’s pretty, but her face is hard, and it’s easy to see why. His is round and soft, his eyes as sad as a child’s.

We leave the park and explore more alleys, a couple which are filled with people, tourists, shoppers, and likely absolutely no locals. We stop in at a bar which doubles as a hostel and the owner is the first Chinese man I have seen with long hair. But it’s not Chinese hair; it’s light brown and frisky and bounces when he walks. 

Lots of foreigners here, including a table of three young German men drinking and loudly playing Uno. I think of Rolf and Anna. There's  also a family of Chinese - mom, dad, son and daughter. When the kids act up, mom gets pissed while dad just laughs. Mom spends most of her time on her cell phone while dad plays with either the boy or both kids, but mainly the boy. I figure this is mom’s beak time. When I return a lost checker to them, she gives me a warm smile. 

We stroll home, through another alley, this one exquisite in its design. There are very few people in it, and in one an architect is working late. Doorways are thoughtfully decorated with flowers and small benches, and the street has a cohesiveness to it that is warm and tasteful. Clearly where the rich live. 

Max is due in at the train station at around 11:30 and I think about what I should do. I wonder what Janette would do. If Max were her child, she’d go to the train station, meet him, greet him with a joyous hug, maybe some food and water since he complained about not having any water, carry his luggage, talk with him about his travels, put him in his room, stay with him talking for a good half hour before getting herself to bed at 2:00 am. It’s 11:00 now. Just thinking about it makes me tired, so I pull on my sleep mask and go to sleep. 
