---
layout: post
title:  Hallmark
---
As a child, we used to go to midnight mass as a family then return home to open presents. We’d finish up around 2:00 or 3:00 in the morning then go to bed. My father would inevitably be up at his usual 6:00 and, unable to let any of us sleep in Christmas Day, would put an album of Christmas carols on the stereo and play it at a loud enough volume to wake the entire block. Then, once everyone was up, he would resume reading his paper. He just wanted to know we were around, I guess. 

I know what he felt. Angelica and Janette came down yesterday morning, and Sam had some friends over in the afternoon, and then Amy showed up for one last reunion with Janette, and Adam and a girlfriend, friends of Max’s, came by and so did a man none of us had ever met before to pick up his daughter, one of the friends of Sam’s. The house felt full and busy and I enjoyed it all. I would never want it like that all the time, but everyone is happy and full of the holidays and of seeing one another again, knowing our time together is quite finite.

Today, Janette and her kids, along with Max, are down at the Kennedy Center for a sing-along of Handel’s Messiah; Sam and Peifen left to go to DC for dinner, and Eli, at the last minute, went skating with friends. Which leaves me here alone, or with Guinevere, and at first I felt kind of lonely and wishing I could be with any one of them, but then I poured myself a glass of some lovely red wine and sat with a book and read and I was quite happy. I was no longer alone, but with the thoughts of the author. Or rather, I was alone, but not lonely at all. 

I wrote Christmas cards to each of my three kids and one to Peifen (I’d written Janette’s a few days ago) and wondered, as I was wrapping up the last of them, if I had gotten too emotional in them. Too squishy. It’s fine, I think, but it reminded me of Poolesville, of days when Wendy and I would work all day, hard physical work, then sit on the back steps with dirty hands and faces and filthy clothes, and watch the sunset. A couple of small, wooden steps, just enough room for two with a bottle of beer each. The sunsets out there were often spectacular, in part because of the haze, part because of the surroundings, which were green and still, filled with the soft nickering of horses and the wonderfully rueful, scraping calls of the geese. We’d sit mostly in silence and I would be filled with a longing to somehow be worthy of the moment, simultaneously awe-struck and replete with guilt. I felt that I was not worthy to be within that moment of serenity and grace and a sky filled with saturated crimsons and a wide palette of subtle blues and pinks and oranges. But of course I was in error, thinking I could convey such a time, and through conveyance, extend it. Such moment are simply meant to be, and then to not be anymore.

Everything ebbs and flows. The house fills with people, then it empties, and soon it will be gone altogether. I cannot extend a single moment, not with a photograph nor with words or anything else. We are brief observers of our world, and it is often difficult to get just that right. As with so many other things, having a house full of love makes it so much easier. 
