---
layout: post
title:  Silence
---
Went to Quaker Meeting today, just a stone’s throw from the townhouse. These Meetings are never as quiet I think they might or hope they will be. There’s a lot of noise, from people rustling coats to doors closing in the distance to people sipping their coffee or sighing or just shuffling about on their bench. 

Over the past couple of hundred years, we’ve made the world a louder place. My great-grandfather - just three generations ago – never heard the drone of a single-engine airplane over his head. He never had a conversation interrupted by the metal squeal of a truck’s brakes, or ate dinner listening to the incessant motor of his neighbor’s lawn mower. No helicopters beating the air or police sirens pierced his sleep. When he got in his carriage, he listened only to the breathing of the horse and maybe the rustle of his wife’s clothing, not commercial jingles urging him to act one way or to give another.

This little fantasy of mine however, is just that. True silence is rare. Retreating from civilization, venturing out into the woods, I hear the jay’s shriek, the call of doves. If I’m lucky, the white noise of rushing water will wrap me tightly, like a newborn’s blanket, but it is not silence. There in the woods, if I stand still, I will hear the chattering of squirrels and chipmunks, the wind as it settles into a breeze and brushes the trees to rid them of their dander. 

Just sitting here writing, I can hear a traffic helicopter, passing delivery trucks, the hum of the refrigerator, the indistinct voices of neighbors as they pass on the street and, of course, that joyful irritant we carry with us always, the cell phone, as it chirps, buzzes, beeps and sings in response to unseen waves of information, largely trivial and sometimes dire. 

But occasionally I find myself in the midst of a palpable stillness that brings everything together and gives my soul a breather. This can and does happen at Quaker Meeting, especially those that are small in number. It happens when I get out of the car at our cabin, usually after a 2-1/2 hour drive. I open the door to the truck and step into a stillness as I might wade into a pond, one probing step after another, acclimating to the new environment, the joyful serenity which comes from excluding everything except this one, single moment of quiet and deep stillness. I can feel the ripples of disturbance I make as I walk through the air, pushing it ahead of me and leaving small wakes upon which gnats bob up and down. It is night, and most everything is at rest: the trees are still, the neighbors tucked far away, the stars immobile and mute. I hold my breath; such pleasure in this desert of sound. Surely there is something which lives here, which is to be found. 

Quakers say it is “that of God,” and it is within us and can be understood only in Silence, which they capitalize. Many other religious and spiritual traditions have similar beliefs and practices, and if you want proof that we are, as a species, losing touch with our eternal origins, just look at how we have filled our days and nights with noise, each one louder than the next. The architect LeCorbusier once said that if you want a room to be very dark, put a single window, one small source of light within it. I rode in a balloon once, and the pilot shut the gas and each of us in the basket listened as one dog, far below, proclaimed himself over the entire countryside. That dog was full of god.
