---
layout: post
title: Prologue
---
### Prologue:	June 15, 2019 
 
Like many things in the 21st century, it all started with an email. This one I sent to my siblings:

> “Well, it's been . . . a time.
>
> Last Friday, Eli graduated from high school, though he continues to turn in work he owes his math teacher. On Tuesday I spoke with the guy who has been facilitating his visa to China, and he said well, not sure if we will get it in time, and if not, you'll just have to change his flights.
>
> :O
>
> After some back and forth between Eli, the guy, me, the place in China where Eli will be working, plus a letter I signed and faxed to the Chinese Embassy here in DC, we got it worked out. Eli made arrangements to pick up his passport and visa yesterday at 11:00 at the  Embassy.
>
> Coincidentally, 11:00 yesterday was the start time of my school's graduation, where I was slated to give the commencement speech. I  was texting with Eli on the phone right up until, and little beyond, the start of the ceremony, including one text to assure him that the old white guy he saw at the embassy was probably not Chris Fan, the facilitator. 
>
> As soon as I sat down from giving my speech, I got a text from Eli saying he had the passport in hand. A whole 17 hours to spare!
>
> So this morning at 4:30 I took him to National where he caught a flight to Dallas. Mind you he's never flown on his own before, much less internationally. Don't know if this would have been possible without cell phones, as I ushered him through the process via text   messages. Once he got to Dallas, Sam also got chatting with him, and between the two of us we got him from one terminal to the next and on the plane for his 14 hour flight to Beijing. 
>
> It's the little things we take for granted that can trip us up. The board at the gate in Dallas still listed the destination as Peking, so Eli thought he was in the wrong place. 
>
> Anyway, Sam will meet him at the airport in Beijing when he lands tomorrow evening, about 5:45 am EST. Once he gets through Customs, Sam can help him find the final leg of his trip, a short flight to Hangchou, where he will be met by one of the camp people. 
>
> He will then spend the next 6-1/2 weeks in what is essentially a YMCA camp (though it's called YMCE there) teaching English to middle-school aged kids of the local elite. His assignment actually got switched at the last minute and he will be in Shanghai, which I think he will like better - more to do on his days off.
>
> I will meet Sam and Max in Hong Kong on July 25 and we will take a train to Yangshuo, where the landscape is like that of a Chinese painting. We'll wait for Eli to be done with camp, then the four of us will spend three to four weeks traveling through China. I’ll be back just in time to turn around and take him out to Portland, this time with Janette so we can spend a few nights in the Willamette valley before heading back East.
>
> Whew! Got a lot to do between now and then, but I am, officially, it would seem, an empty-nester. Which makes the last of us. 
>
> Complicated emotions.
>
> Hope everyone is healthy and well!”

What I did not say in the email was that it was a good thing National airport was full of people at 6:00 this morning, because their presence kept me from weeping openly as Eli made his way through security, his fuzzy stuffed dog with its droopy ears peeking out at me from Eli’s backpack. Flashes of his birth and childhood popped into my head as I watched him wind his way up to the TSA officer, present his credentials and then look for where to go next, his face a mix of innocence and excitement and terror. 

I remember being quite sad when his brothers left, but not like this. I walked over to the relative privacy of the observation window. The sun was coming up behind the tails of the parked jets, and I distracted myself by taking a few photos with my phone. I felt better, but then almost lost it again as I turned out of the main terminal and headed toward the parking garage. Why was this one so much harder than the first two?

When Sam left I still had Max and Eli, and then Eli when Max went away. This time I was headed home to an empty house, not simply one less place to set at the dinner table. And when Sam and then Max left, the table might have been smaller, but we still had dinner at the same time each evening. Now I could go home and eat whatever I wanted, wherever I wanted to eat it, at any time I felt like it. I did not have to worry about putting food on the table at a certain time, nor concern myself with the likes or dislikes of others - though to be fair, all my kids were pretty grateful for having any food at all put in front of them. That freedom came with its costs, which I was now feeling in the pit of my stomach. 

What fed my sadness more than being alone however, was how clearly I could see Eli’s vulnerability. At barely 18 years of age, he is fairly innocent still, and I was sending him off to the other side of the world and he had packed his stuffed animal from childhood. Definitely one of those moments when I wondered if I had any right at all to be a parent.

I went home and dragged his bed into the empty room across the hall, then washed the sheets and made the bed. I would be sleeping there starting that night. Now that I had the space of the entire house to myself, there would be no more sleeping in the basement with its damp, moldy air that I think has been killing my brain cells for some time. Already I was replacing responsibility to my kids with responsibility to myself, and I did not feel guilty at all. 

It did not last. As I fell asleep I ruminated on being a father in this age of technological upheaval and shifting attitudes towards masculinity and parenting generally, and how I was trying to bridge my father’s generation with its paternal attitudes and that of  my children while still trying to pass things along about things that truly matter, and how to make sense of my relationship with my father so that I can have a stronger one with my three sons. Had this opportunity just passed? Or was it just starting, now that the three of them were adults? 

My phone chimed. An email from my sister Charlotte:

> “Just reading your e-mail made me tired and stressed. It actually sounds like a fantastic summer though - many adventures await!!  Are you going to keep a journal?”
