---
layout: post
title:  Epilogue
---

It was exactly one year ago I dropped Eli off at the airport on his was y to Dallas on then Beijing and eventually Shanghai. When I took him to the same airport for his return to Portland for the start of his second semester at Lewis and Clark, it was a lot easier. He seemed much more self-confident, much more aware of how the processes work, and expressed his gratitude for the time spent at home. “Being away,” he said, “Gave me a sense of okay, this is what I have been missing.” It’s a very common epiphany for people of that age, but nonetheless one a parent is always, always grateful to hear.

Sam left just a couple of days later and then the kids were spread among the cities of the west coast:  Sam ensconced in Seattle with his girlfriend, who I like; Eli in school in Portland and liking it; Max in LA, living, finally, in an apartment and taking Taiji and playing music. 

We put the house on the market in March, just two days before the world collapsed with the coronavirus. Remarkably, it still sold, and by the end of April we had that weight lifted off our shoulders. Now Eli is living here in the townhouse with Janette and me for the summer, and Angelica pops in now and again to stay for a day or two. Mostly though, it’s just Janette and me. Life here is better than it was in Maryland, and not just because of the traffic. I’ve found a small Buddhist meditation group, and we meet once a week online. There’s a Quaker Meeting just two blocks away. Not sure when it will re-open, but people don’t tend to sit near one another anyway, so it doesn’t seem like social distancing would be much of a problem. And with the cabin just a half-hour’s drive away, we pop up often for bonfires, which are still another version of the first two.

The year began with a continent on fire, then the coronavirus and more recently, the protests over the death of George Floyd and the shift of our national attention to race. It feels like the sixties in some respects, but each event and time is its own, so of course parallels can only be made with a long list of caveats. My kids ask me what to do in this situation and my only honest response is I don’t know. Make each decision on its own, and be open to change around you and most especially, to change within you.

Somewhere toward the end of 1968, after the assassinations of Martin Luther King and Robert Kennedy, after the riots that burned American cities and the Democratic Convention in Chicago, which exposed police running amok way back then, my father sat at our dining room table, speaking with a priest friend of his. I could hear their low voices form the next room. “If any of my kids had to go to Vietnam,” I heard him say, “I’d tell them to go to Canada.”

It was an extraordinary thing to hear my father, a life-long Republican and US Navy vet, declare. He had to have made a lot of internal u-turns to arrive there, and to my ears at the time, this was startling. Looking back at it now, I can see it as one way he was able to tell us that he loved us.

When I take the lessons I have learned from my father and my relationship with him, and when I look around me now, at my own children and the rapidly changing world which they inhabit and will experience after I am gone, this is the one sane and sure thing I can pass on to them: 

Go to Canada.
